The history of the Republic of Singapore began when Singapore was expelled
from Malaysia and became an independent republic on 9 August 1965. After the
separation, the fledgling nation had to become self-sufficient, however was
faced with problems including mass unemployment, housing shortages and lack of
land and natural resources such as petroleum. During Lee Kuan Yew's term as
prime minister from 1959 to 1990, his government curbed unemployment, raised
the standard of living and implemented a large-scale public housing programme.
The country's economic infrastructure was developed, racial tension was
eliminated and an independent national defence system was established.
Singapore evolved from a third world nation to first world nation towards the
end of the 20th century. In 1990, Goh Chok Tong succeeded Lee as prime
minister. During his tenure, the country tackled the economic impacts of the
1997 Asian financial crisis and the 2003 SARS outbreak, as well as terrorist
threats posed by the Jemaah Islamiah (JI) post-9/11 and the Bali bombings. In
2004, Lee Hsien Loong, the eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew, became the third prime
minister. In 2024, Lee was succeeded by Lawrence Wong as prime minister.
Independence from Malaysia Singapore became part of Malaysia on 16 September
1963 following a merger with Malaya, North Borneo, and Sarawak. The merger was
thought to benefit the economy by creating a common, free market, and to
improve Singapore's internal security. However, it was an uneasy union.
Disputes between the state government of Singapore and the federal government
occurred on different issues, especially the federal policies of affirmative
action, which granted special privileges to the Malays guaranteed under
Article 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia. Singapore Prime Minister Lee Kuan
Yew, and other political leaders began advocating for equal treatment of all
races in Malaysia, with a rallying cry of "Malaysian Malaysia!" Racial
tensions between the Chinese and Malays increased dramatically, resulting in
numerous racial riots. The most notorious riots were the 1964 race riots that
first took place on the Mawlid on 21 July with 23 people killed and hundreds
injured. The price of food increased greatly when the transport system was
disrupted during the unrest, causing further hardship for the people. The
state and federal governments also had conflicts on the economic front. UMNO
leaders feared that the economic dominance of Singapore would inevitably shift
political power away from Kuala Lumpur. Despite an earlier agreement to
establish a common market, Singapore continued to face restrictions when
trading with the rest of Malaysia. In retaliation, Singapore refused to
provide Sabah and Sarawak the full extent of the loans previously agreed to
for economic development of the two eastern states. The situation escalated to
such intensity that talks soon broke down and abusive speeches and writings
became rife on both sides. UMNO extremists called for the arrest of Lee Kuan
Yew. Seeing no alternative to avoid further bloodshed, Malaysian Prime
Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman decided to expel Singapore from the federation.
The Parliament of Malaysia voted 126-0, with all Singaporean MPs boycotting
the vote, in favour of the expulsion on 9 August 1965. On that day, a tearful
Lee Kuan Yew announced on a televised press conference that Singapore was a
sovereign, independent nation. In a widely remembered quote, he uttered that:
"For me, it would be a moment of anguish. I mean for me, it is a moment of
anguish because all my life... you see the whole of my adult life.. I have
believed in merger and the unity of these two territories. You know it's a
people connected by geography, economics, and ties of kinship..." The new
state became the Republic of Singapore. 1965 to Late 1970s After gaining
independence abruptly, Singapore sensed the need for immediate international
recognition of its sovereignty. In this period, there were regional conflicts
as well as international tensions. The Konfrontasi was ongoing and some UMNO
factions strongly opposed the separation; Singapore faced the danger of being
attacked by Indonesian military or forcibly reabsorbed into Malaysia on
disadvantageous terms. With the help of the Malaysian, Republic of China, and
Indian governments, Singapore became a member of the United Nations on 21
September 1965, and the Commonwealth in October that year. A new foreign
ministry was established and was headed by Sinnathamby Rajaratnam who helped
to assert Singapore's independence and established diplomatic relations with
other countries. The participation in international organizations also helped
to boost trade through cooperation. Singapore later co-founded the ASEAN on 8
August 1967, joined the Non-Aligned Movement in 1970, and later the World
Trade Organization. In 1971, the Five Power Defence Arrangements (FPDA)
between Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand and Britain was
established. As a tiny island, Singapore was seen as a nonviable nation state;
much of the international media was sceptical of prospects for Singapore's
survival. Besides the issue of sovereignty, the pressing problems were
unemployment, housing, education, lack of natural resources and lack of land.
Singapore also faced the threat of terrorism. By the 1970s, the Malayan
Communist Party had split into smaller groups. While there were no longer a
formidable, unified force, the communists still posed a danger to the internal
security of Singapore. Police raids against these groups uncovered large
quantities of weapons such as pistols and grenades. During this decade, the
communists carried out acts of violence that included the killing of a 7-year-
old girl in Changi in 1970. There was also an explosion of a bomb in Katong in
1974, as well as the attempted assassination of Singapore's Commissioner
Police in 1976. Independent Singapore experienced its first encounter with
international terrorism on 31 January 1974 when foreign terrorists hijacked
the ferry boat Laju and held crew members hostage. The Terrorists had earlier
attacked the oil refinery on Pulau Bukom in an attempt to disrupt the oil
supply from Singapore to South Vietnam. After days of negotiation, the
hijackers finally agreed to release the hostages in exchange for safe passage
from Singapore to Kuwait. To ensure safe passage of hikackers of the Laju from
Singapore to Kuwait, a group of Singapore government officials, led by S.R.
Nathan, accompanied by the hijackers on their flight. Nathan was then Director
of the Security and Intelligence Division at the Ministry of Defense, and
would later go on to serve as the President of Singapore. The Singapore team
comprised Nathan, eight government officials and four Singapore Armed Forces
commandos. On 9 February 1974, the 13 Singaporean Officials returned to
Singapore from Kuwait. The unemployment rate ranged between 10 and 12% and it
threatened to create civil unrest. The loss of access to the Malaysian
hinterland market and the lack of natural resources meant that Singapore had
no solid traditional sources of income. A large portion of the population
lacked formal education, even taking into account Chinese schools, which the
British did not recognize. Entrepot trade, the main use of Singapore's port
and the original reason for Singapore's success in the 19th century, was no
longer sufficient to support the large population. Economic focus Singapore
invested heavily to promote economic growth. The Economic Development Board
was set up in 1961 by Goh Keng Swee, and with the assistance of Dutch economic
advisor Albert Winsemius, national economic strategies were formulated to
promote Singapore's manufacturing sector. Industrial estates were set up,
especially in the reclaimed swampland of Jurong, and government ministers
toured the world in order to try to attract foreign investment. The government
offered new investors tax holidays of 5–10 years. Singapore's port gave her an
advantage over her neighbouring countries, being a favourable spot for
efficient exports of refined goods and imports of raw material. This meant
that industries in Singapore found international markets easily, and cheaper
prices for raw goods. Singapore's growing industrialisation meant that
entrepot trade had been extended into processing of imported raw materials
into exported finished products—leading to higher value-added goods which
brought more income to the island. This ended up being a suitable alternative
to a common market to the Malaysian hinterland, although later a form of it
ended up being formed with the creation of ASEAN. The service industry also
grew at this time, sparked by demand for services by ships calling at the port
and increasing commerce. This progress helped to alleviate the unemployment
problem. With Winsemius's help, Singapore attracted big oil companies like
Shell and Esso to establish oil refineries in Singapore which became the third
largest oil-refining centre in the world by the mid-1970s. The new direction
that Singapore took demanded a skilled labour force to engage in her revised
role of refining raw goods, as opposed to the traditional natural resource
extraction industries of her neighbours. Its leaders decided early on that the
population would need to be fluent in the English language, as they would be
communicating and cooperating with expatriate employers or business partners
abroad, and English was adopted as the medium of education for all schools.
The education system was designed to be rigorous and intensive, with emphasis
on immediately practical, rather than intellectual, applications, such as on
technical sciences as opposed to political discussion or philosophy. A large
portion, around one-fifth of Singapore's budget, was devoted to education to
facilitate a large and competent workforce upon graduation. The government of
Singapore currently maintains it at this level. New housing There was a lack
of good housing and a proliferation of squatter settlements. Combined with the
high unemployment rate, this led to social problems from crime, a low standard
of living, and unrest. The other deleterious effect of squatter settlements
was that many of these were built of highly flammable materials, were poorly
constructed and thus posed a high fire risk. A prominent example in this case
is the Bukit Ho Swee Squatter Fire that broke out in 1961. In addition, there
was poor sanitation, which led to the spread of infectious diseases. The
Housing Development Board set up before independence continued to be largely
successful under Lim Kim San. Huge building projects sprang up to provide
cheap, affordable public housing to resettle the squatters, hence removing a
serious social problem. 25,000 apartments were built in the first two years.
It was remarkable that, within a decade, the majority of the population had
been housed in HDB apartments. Possible explanations for the otherwise
seemingly impossible success was the determination of the government, the
large budget allocations, and efforts to eliminate red tape and corruption. In
1968, the Central Provident Fund (CPF) Housing Scheme was introduced to allow
residents to use their CPF savings to purchase HDB flats, which gradually
increased home ownership in Singapore. Another problem facing Singapore was
the lack of national identity and unity among most of the population. Many
people were born in foreign lands and still identified themselves in terms of
countries of origin, rather than being Singaporeans. This posed the potential
for problems with the loyalty and reliability of citizens, and for the
possibility of further racial riots. In order to resolve racial tension, a
policy to create national identity through education in schools and flag
raising and lowering ceremonies was implemented. This was re-emphasized
through the curriculum of "National Education", a compulsory program of which
the main goal was to inculcate students with a sense of "national fraternity".
The Singapore National Pledge, written by Sinnathamby Rajaratnam, was
introduced in 1966 emphasizing unity among the people "regardless of race,
language or religion." The system of justice and law in Singapore was
reformed, and the government implemented several measures to overcome labour
unrest and disputes. Strict labour legislation was passed that provided better
protection to workers, but still allowed for greater productivity by
permitting longer working hours and reducing holidays. The labour movement was
further consolidated under the National Trades Union Congress with close
oversight by the government. By the end of the 1960s, the number of labour
strikes was significantly reduced. Singapore took the step of nationalising
companies that would not survive on their own, or could otherwise be
detrimental for Singapore if, as public services, they were not closely in
line with government policy. Singapore Power, Public Utilities Board, SingTel
and Singapore Airlines (SIA) are prominent examples. Such companies that were
nationalized were often infrastructure or utility concerns, companies meant to
lay out services such as electricity or transport for the benefit of other
companies. The extension of power infrastructure, for example, led to an
increased attraction of foreign investors. Recently, the government has taken
steps to privatise these previous monopolies—SingTel and Singapore Airlines
are now publicly listed, limited liability companies, even though the
government still holds large shares in them. Independent defence force Another
major issue brought up around this time was national defence. Following
independence, the British were still defending Singapore, but had announced
they would be withdrawing by 1971, due to pressures at home and military
commitments elsewhere in the world. This caused considerable alarm locally,
particularly among those who remembered the Japanese occupation during World
War II. Therefore, Singapore introduced National Service in 1967, which
rapidly expanded the defence force, known as the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF).
Thousands of men were conscripted for at least two years of full National
Service. Upon completing National Service, they would be liable for reservist
duties, which meant they would continue to receive occasional military
training and take up arms in times of emergency. In 1965, Goh Keng Swee became
Minister for the Interior and Defence, and initiated the formation of a
national defence force, called the Singapore Armed Forces, which was to be
established by the time of the British withdrawal. The British agreed to
postpone the withdrawal for half a year, but no longer. "Our army is to be
engaged in the defence of the country and our people against the external
aggression. This task we are unable to do today by ourselves. It is no use
pretending that without the British military presence in Singapore today, the
island cannot be easily over-run by any neighbouring country within a radius
of 1000 miles, if any of them cared to do so..." Dr Goh Keng Swee made a
speech to Parliament on 23 December 1965. Singapore consulted international
experts from West Germany and Israel to train their armed forces and equip
them. As a small country surrounded by larger neighbours, Singapore allocated
a large portion of its budget, around 19%, to defence and this still continues
today, having the fourth largest per capita military expenditure in the world,
after Israel, the United States and Kuwait. Singapore was especially
interested in Israel's model of national service, a factor in its decisive
victory in the Six-Day War over its Arab neighbours in 1967. This led to the
implementation of Singapore's own national service programme starting in 1967.
All eighteen-year-old males would be required to participate in national
service and train full-time for two and a half years, and then required to
repeatedly come back each year to maintain their skills in order to carry out
an effective mobilisation at any time. This policy meant that Singapore could
quickly mobilize enough defence forces to deter any invasion, especially
against Indonesia during the Confrontation, when the British withdrew in
September 1971. Females were left out of national service—the explanation
being that, during a time of war, they would be required to support the
economy while the men were fighting. This policy is sometimes questioned as
being sexist and has been discussed in the mass media a number of times
together with the length of training involved. The creation of the national
service policy is thought to aid the strengthening of national and racial ties
since there is a sense of unity when training as a youth with peers of other
races. 1980s to 1990s Further economic success continued through the 1980s
onwards, with the unemployment rate falling to 3% and real GDP growth
averaging at about 8% during this time until 1999. In the 1980s, Singapore
faced the challenge of needing to upgrade its industries to higher-technology
industries, in order to compete with its neighbours which were exporting the
same things at a lower price. Originally, Singapore manufactured goods such as
textiles. A skilled workforce with an aptitude for learning helped ease the
transition, for example, to new jobs in the wafer fabrication industry, which
was quickly being established in Singapore. Singapore Changi Airport was
opened in 1981. The development of air transport meant further extension of
entrepot trade as well as its intended purpose of attracting investors through
a convenient way to enter and leave the country. In conjunction with Singapore
Airlines, for example, the hospitality industry grew immensely, which led to
growth in the tourism industry. The Housing Development Board continued to
promote public housing. New towns, such as in Ang Mo Kio, were designed and
built. They have larger and higher-standard apartments and are served with
better amenities. Today, 80–90% of the population lives in HDB apartments.
With the justification of fostering national unity, "racial harmony" and
loyalty, the government explicitly planned to group the different races
together within the same estate, in order to integrate the races. This HDB
policy became a major contribution towards the Singaporean culture. Singapore
also had to upgrade its military, for instance upgrading the standard infantry
weapon of its army. Formerly it had been the L1A1 Self-Loading Rifle, it was
upgraded to the lighter, United States-made M16. A Total Defence policy was
created in 1984 with the intent of the population being prepared to defend
Singapore on five metaphorical fronts: economically, on a civil level
(including hospitals), a social level, a psychological level as well as on a
military level. With continuous strong economic growth, Singapore became one
of the world's most prosperous countries, with strong international trading
links. Its port is one of the world's busiest and with a per capita GDP above
that of the leading nations of Western Europe. The education budget remains at
one fifth or more, and many of its practices, such as racial harmony, continue
today. A side effect of this was increasingly common traffic congestion, and
the first Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) line was established in 1987. It would
later grow to become an epitome of a well-integrated public transport system.
This network also improved the convenience of travelling from one side of the
island to the other – a benefit which did not exist in the 1960s. Political
system The political situation in Singapore is extremely stable. The PAP had a
15-year monopoly in parliament during 1966 to 1981, winning all seats in
elections before J. B. Jeyaretnam of the Workers' Party of Singapore won the
Anson constituency in a 1981 by-election. The PAP rule is termed authoritarian
by activists who see some of the regulations of political and media activities
as an infringement on political rights, perceiving them as authoritarian. This
has been the greatest complaint about the PAP by the opposition parties so
far, the Workers' Party of Singapore and the Singapore Democratic Party being
two of the prominent opposition parties who accuse the PAP of
authoritarianism. The government of Singapore underwent several significant
changes. Non-Constituency Member of Parliament was introduced in 1984 to allow
up to three losing opposition parties candidates be appointed as MPs. Group
Representation Constituencies (GRCs) was introduced in a 1988 amendment to the
Parliamentary Elections Act to create multi-seat electoral divisions, intended
to ensure minority representation in parliament. Nominated Member of
Parliament was introduced in 1990 to allow non-elected non-partisan MPs. The
Constitution was amended in 1991 to provide for an Elected President who has
veto power in the use of national reserves and appointments to public office.
The opposition parties have complained that the GRC system has made it
difficult for them to gain a foothold in parliamentary elections in Singapore,
and the plurality voting system in the constituencies of Singapore, especially
large group representation constituencies, tends to exclude minority parties.
The system has been defended by the PAP because the system encourages
representation of the minority races by requiring a minority candidate in
group representation constituencies. This however increases the difficulty of
the opposition parties being able to gain a seat. Until the general election
in 2006, the PAP had always managed to return to power on nomination day, even
before the elections commenced since the amendment to the Parliamentary
Elections Act. The opposition accuses that the group representation
constituency is an intentional hindrance, as between 1991 and 2001 did not
manage to put forward enough qualified candidates to even contest the PAP's
mandate. The arrest of Chee Soon Juan, and the lawsuits of slander against J.
B. Jeyaretnam, both opposition MPs, have been cited by the opposition parties
as examples of such authoritarianism. They also have been charged on the
grounds of slander for political criticism. The lack of separation of powers
between the court system and the government led to further accusations by the
opposition parties of miscarriage of justice. Further arrests of those who
were politically active against the PAP, such as Francis Seow, and even
students who have recently entered tertiary education are part of these
accusations of authoritarianism. In 1990, Lee Kuan Yew passed the reins to
successor Goh Chok Tong, who presented a more open and consultative style of
leadership as the country continued to modernise. In 1997, Singapore
experienced the effect of the Asian financial crisis and tough measures, such
as cuts in the CPF contribution were implemented. 2000 to present Singapore
went through some of its most serious postwar crises, including the SARS
outbreak in 2003, the COVID-19 pandemic and the threat of terrorism. In
December 2001, a plot to bomb embassies and other infrastructure in Singapore
was uncovered and 15 members of the Jemaah Islamiyah were arrested under the
Internal Security Act. Major counter-terrorism measures were put in place to
detect and prevent potential terrorism acts and to minimize damages should
they occur. Meanwhile, the economy was affected marginally during the crisis,
and in 2003, the average monthly household income was SGD$4,870. In 2004, Lee
Hsien Loong, the eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew, became the third prime minister
of Singapore. A number of national policy changes have been proposed and
carried out since then. One of these changes was the reduction of National
Service training requirements from two and a half years to two during 2005.
The government also introduced a "Cutting Red Tape" program, which allows
citizens to share their views on law, punishment, social and world issues. The
general election of 2006 has been considered by analysts to be a landmark
election in the history of Singapore, because of the heavy use of the internet
and blogging that covered the election, which escaped government regulation.
Just before the election, on 1 May 2006, the government issued a cash bonus,
called the "progress package" to all adult citizens, worth SGD $2.6 billion.
The PAP returned to power in the election winning 82 out of 84 seats, and 66%
of the votes. During the election campaign period, there were large turnouts
at many opposition rallies, with Malaysian newspaper The Star estimating that
over ten thousand people attended one rally held on 30 April 2006. Singapore's
bilateral post-independence relationship with Malaysia is complex and rocky at
times. Despite their differences, Malaysia remains an important, albeit
partial, economic hinterland and a regional ally, especially due to both their
memberships in ASEAN. This importance becomes especially apparent when
considering that much of Singapore's water supply comes from Malaysia. Both
countries have been known to chide or even issue threats to the other due to
differences in paths taken after independence, but fortunately this has never
become serious enough to develop into embargo or hostility. There are
increasing reforms in the education system. Primary education was made
compulsory in 2003. This style of educational policy was still extremely
competitive, and favoured those that did well initially, and tended to ignore
the suffering students, in the process of streaming. This remains a
controversial issue even today. It was theme for the successful local film I
Not Stupid which also addresses the culture of competition induced by the
post-independence education policy. Although the education policy has evolved
over the years to address such concerns, the streaming issue is still
prominent. The 2013 Population White Paper was officially released by the
government proposing a future national population of 6.9 million due to
growing concerns of rising life expectancy, declining birth rates and ageing
population foreseen of Singapore in 2030. This came after the formal launch of
two integrated resorts, which also became the most profitable in the world in
the same year. == References ==

