Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * [Main page](/wiki/Main_Page "Visit the main page \[z\]")
  * [Contents](/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents "Guides to browsing Wikipedia")
  * [Current events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events "Articles related to current events")
  * [Random article](/wiki/Special:Random "Visit a randomly selected article \[x\]")
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About "Learn about Wikipedia and how it works")
  * [Contact us](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us "How to contact Wikipedia")

Contribute

  * [Help](/wiki/Help:Contents "Guidance on how to use and edit Wikipedia")
  * [Learn to edit](/wiki/Help:Introduction "Learn how to edit Wikipedia")
  * [Community portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal "The hub for editors")
  * [Recent changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges "A list of recent changes to Wikipedia \[r\]")
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard "Add images or other media for use on Wikipedia")

[ ![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)
](/wiki/Main_Page)

[ Search ](/wiki/Special:Search "Search Wikipedia \[f\]")

Search

  * [Donate](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en "Support us by donating to the Wikimedia Foundation")

Appearance

  * [Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore "You are encouraged to create an account and log in; however, it is not mandatory")
  * [Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore "You're encouraged to log in; however, it's not mandatory. \[o\]")

Personal tools

  * [ Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore "You are encouraged to create an account and log in; however, it is not mandatory")
  * [ Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore "You're encouraged to log in; however, it's not mandatory. \[o\]")

Pages for logged out editors [learn more](/wiki/Help:Introduction)

  * [Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions "A list of edits made from this IP address \[y\]")
  * [Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk "Discussion about edits from this IP address \[n\]")

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)
  * 1 Independence from Malaysia
  * 2 1965 to Late 1970s Toggle 1965 to Late 1970s subsection
    * 2.1 Economic focus
    * 2.2 New housing
    * 2.3 Independent defence force
  * 3 1980s to 1990s Toggle 1980s to 1990s subsection
    * 3.1 Political system
  * 4 2000 to present
  * 5 References

Toggle the table of contents

# History of the Republic of Singapore

2 languages

  * [العربية](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%AA%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%AE_%D8%AC%D9%85%D9%87%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A9_%D8%B3%D9%86%D8%BA%D8%A7%D9%81%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A9 "تاريخ جمهورية سنغافورة – Arabic")
  * [日本語](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E3%82%B7%E3%83%B3%E3%82%AC%E3%83%9D%E3%83%BC%E3%83%AB%E5%85%B1%E5%92%8C%E5%9B%BD%E3%81%AE%E6%AD%B4%E5%8F%B2 "シンガポール共和国の歴史 – Japanese")

[Edit
links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q5870290#sitelinks-
wikipedia "Edit interlanguage links")

  * [Article](/wiki/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "View the content page \[c\]")
  * [Talk](/wiki/Talk:History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "Discuss improvements to the content page \[t\]")

English

  * [Read](/wiki/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit "Edit this page \[e\]")
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/wiki/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit "Edit this page \[e\]")
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "List of all English Wikipedia pages containing links to this page \[j\]")
  * [Related changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[k\]")
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard "Upload files \[u\]")
  * [Special pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[q\]")
  * [Permanent link](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&oldid=1247228714 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=info "More information about this page")
  * [Cite this page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&id=1247228714&wpFormIdentifier=titleform "Information on how to cite this page")
  * [Get shortened URL](/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FHistory_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore)
  * [Download QR code](/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FHistory_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore)

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=show-download-screen "Download this page as a PDF file")
  * [Printable version](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&printable=yes "Printable version of this page \[p\]")

In other projects

  * [Wikidata item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q5870290 "Structured data on this page hosted by Wikidata \[g\]")

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

For the full history of Singapore before independence dating back to
settlement, see [History of Singapore](/wiki/History_of_Singapore "History of
Singapore").

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/b4/Ambox_important.svg/40px-Ambox_important.svg.png)| **This article has multiple issues.** Please help **[improve it](/wiki/Special:EditPage/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "Special:EditPage/History of the Republic of Singapore")** or discuss these issues on the **[talk page](/wiki/Talk:History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "Talk:History of the Republic of Singapore")**. _([Learn how and when to remove these messages](/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal "Help:Maintenance template removal"))_ | [![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/9/99/Question_book-new.svg/50px-Question_book-new.svg.png)](/wiki/File:Question_book-new.svg)| This article **needs additional citations for[verification](/wiki/Wikipedia:Verifiability "Wikipedia:Verifiability")**. Please help [improve this article](/wiki/Special:EditPage/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "Special:EditPage/History of the Republic of Singapore") by [adding citations to reliable sources](/wiki/Help:Referencing_for_beginners "Help:Referencing for beginners"). Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  
_Find sources:_ ["History of the Republic of
Singapore"](https://www.google.com/search?as_eq=wikipedia&q=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22)
–
[news](https://www.google.com/search?tbm=nws&q=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22+-wikipedia&tbs=ar:1)
**·**
[newspapers](https://www.google.com/search?&q=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22&tbs=bkt:s&tbm=bks)
**·**
[books](https://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&q=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22+-wikipedia)
**·**
[scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22)
**·**
[JSTOR](https://www.jstor.org/action/doBasicSearch?Query=%22History+of+the+Republic+of+Singapore%22&acc=on&wc=on)
_( August 2020)__([Learn how and when to remove this
message](/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal "Help:Maintenance template
removal"))_  
---|---  
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/f2/Edit-clear.svg/40px-Edit-
clear.svg.png)| This article **is written like a[personal reflection, personal
essay, or argumentative
essay](/wiki/Wikipedia:What_Wikipedia_is_not#Wikipedia_is_not_a_publisher_of_original_thought
"Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not")** that states a Wikipedia editor's personal
feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please [help improve
it](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit)
by rewriting it in an [encyclopedic
style](/wiki/Wikipedia:Writing_better_articles#Information_style_and_tone
"Wikipedia:Writing better articles"). _( September 2018)__([Learn how and when
to remove this message](/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal
"Help:Maintenance template removal"))_  
---|---  
  
_([Learn how and when to remove this
message](/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal "Help:Maintenance template
removal"))_  
  
Part of [a series](/wiki/Category:History_of_Singapore "Category:History of
Singapore") on the  
---  
[History of Singapore](/wiki/History_of_Singapore "History of Singapore")  
[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/44/Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg/150px-
Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg)](/wiki/File:Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg)  
[Early history](/wiki/Early_history_of_Singapore "Early history of Singapore")
(pre-1819)|  [Srivijaya](/wiki/Srivijaya "Srivijaya")|  650–1377  
---|---  
[Temasek](/wiki/Temasek "Temasek"), [Long Ya Men](/wiki/Long_Ya_Men "Long Ya
Men"),  
[Ban Zu](/wiki/Ban_Zu "Ban Zu")|  c.14th century  
[Kingdom of Singapura](/wiki/Kingdom_of_Singapura "Kingdom of Singapura")|
1299–1398  
[Malacca Sultanate](/wiki/Malacca_Sultanate "Malacca Sultanate")|  1400–1511  
[Johor Sultanate](/wiki/Johor_Sultanate "Johor Sultanate")|  1528–1819  
  
British colonial era (1819–1942)|
[Founding](/wiki/Founding_years_of_modern_Singapore "Founding years of modern
Singapore")|  1819–1826  
---|---  
[Straits Settlements](/wiki/Singapore_in_the_Straits_Settlements "Singapore in
the Straits Settlements")|  1826–1867  
[Crown
colony](/wiki/Singapore_in_the_Straits_Settlements#Crown_colony_\(1867–1942\)
"Singapore in the Straits Settlements")|  1867–1942  
  
[Japanese Occupation](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese
occupation of Singapore") (1942–1945)|  [Fall of
Singapore](/wiki/Fall_of_Singapore "Fall of Singapore")|  1942  
---|---  
[Sook Ching](/wiki/Sook_Ching "Sook Ching")|  1942  
[Double Tenth incident](/wiki/Double_Tenth_incident "Double Tenth incident")|
1943  
  
[Post-war period](/wiki/Colony_of_Singapore "Colony of Singapore")
(1945–1962)| [First Legislative
Council](/wiki/History_of_Singapore#First_Legislative_Council_\(1948–1951\)
"History of Singapore")|  1948–1951  
---|---  
[Maria Hertogh riots](/wiki/Maria_Hertogh_riots "Maria Hertogh riots")|  1950  
[Second Legislative
Council](/wiki/History_of_Singapore#Second_Legislative_Council_\(1951–1955\)
"History of Singapore")|  1951–1955  
[Anti-National Service Riots](/wiki/1954_National_Service_riots "1954 National
Service riots")|  1954  
  
[Internal self-government](/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore "Self-governance
of Singapore") (1955–1963)|  [Hock Lee bus riots](/wiki/Hock_Lee_bus_riots
"Hock Lee bus riots")|  1955  
---|---  
[Singapore Glass Factory strikes](/wiki/Singapore_Glass_Factory_strikes
"Singapore Glass Factory strikes")|  1960  
[Pulau Senang prison riots](/wiki/Pulau_Senang_prison_riots "Pulau Senang
prison riots")|  1963  
  
[Merger with Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in Malaysia")
(1963–1965)|  [Singaporean
referendum](/wiki/1962_Singaporean_integration_referendum "1962 Singaporean
integration referendum")|  1962  
---|---  
[Operation Coldstore](/wiki/Operation_Coldstore "Operation Coldstore")|  1963  
[Race riots in Singapore](/wiki/1964_race_riots_in_Singapore "1964 race riots
in Singapore")|  1964  
[MacDonald House bombing](/wiki/MacDonald_House_bombing "MacDonald House
bombing")|  1965  
  
Republic of Singapore (1965–present)| [ASEAN
Declaration](/wiki/ASEAN_Declaration "ASEAN Declaration")
([ASEAN](/wiki/Association_of_Southeast_Asian_Nations "Association of
Southeast Asian Nations"))|  1967  
---|---  
[1969 race riots of Singapore](/wiki/1969_race_riots_of_Singapore "1969 race
riots of Singapore")|  1969  
[Laju incident](/wiki/Laju_incident "Laju incident")|  1974  
[Operation Spectrum](/wiki/Operation_Spectrum "Operation Spectrum")|  1987  
[Asian financial crisis](/wiki/1997_Asian_financial_crisis#Singapore "1997
Asian financial crisis")|  1997  
[Embassies attack plot](/wiki/Singapore_embassies_attack_plot "Singapore
embassies attack plot")|  2001  
[H1N1 pandemic](/wiki/2009_swine_flu_pandemic_in_Asia#Singapore "2009 swine
flu pandemic in Asia")|  2009–2010  
[Bus drivers' strike](/wiki/2012_Singapore_bus_drivers%27_strike "2012
Singapore bus drivers' strike")|  2012  
[Little India riot](/wiki/2013_Little_India_riot "2013 Little India riot")|
2013  
[2018 North Korea–United States Singapore
Summit](/wiki/2018_North_Korea%E2%80%93United_States_Singapore_Summit "2018
North Korea–United States Singapore Summit")|  2018  
[COVID-19 pandemic](/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_Singapore "COVID-19 pandemic in
Singapore")|  2020–2022  
  
By topic

  * [Timeline](/wiki/Timeline_of_Singaporean_history "Timeline of Singaporean history")
  * [Riots](/wiki/List_of_riots_in_Singapore "List of riots in Singapore")
  * [Military](/wiki/Military_history_of_Singapore "Military history of Singapore")

  
![flag](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/48/Flag_of_Singapore.svg/16px-
Flag_of_Singapore.svg.png) [Singapore portal](/wiki/Portal:Singapore
"Portal:Singapore")  
  
  * [v](/wiki/Template:History_of_Singapore "Template:History of Singapore")
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:History_of_Singapore "Template talk:History of Singapore")
  * [e](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Template:History_of_Singapore "Special:EditPage/Template:History of Singapore")

  
  
[The](/wiki/The "The") **history of the Republic of Singapore** began when
[Singapore](/wiki/Singapore "Singapore") was expelled from
[Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysia "Malaysia") and became an
[independent](/wiki/Sovereign "Sovereign") [republic](/wiki/Republic
"Republic") on 9 August 1965.[1] After the separation, the fledgling nation
had to become self-sufficient, however was faced with problems including mass
[unemployment](/wiki/Unemployment "Unemployment"), housing shortages and lack
of land and natural resources such as [petroleum](/wiki/Petroleum
"Petroleum"). During [Lee Kuan Yew](/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew "Lee Kuan Yew")'s term
as prime minister from 1959 to 1990, his government curbed unemployment,
raised the [standard of living](/wiki/Standard_of_living "Standard of living")
and implemented a large-scale public housing programme. The country's
[economic](/wiki/Economic "Economic") infrastructure was developed, racial
tension was eliminated and an independent national defence system was
established. Singapore evolved from a [third world
nation](/wiki/Least_developed_country "Least developed country") to [first
world nation](/wiki/Developed_country "Developed country") towards the end of
the 20th century.[2]

In 1990, [Goh Chok Tong](/wiki/Goh_Chok_Tong "Goh Chok Tong") succeeded Lee as
prime minister. During his tenure, the country tackled the economic impacts of
the [1997 Asian financial crisis](/wiki/1997_Asian_financial_crisis "1997
Asian financial crisis") and the 2003
[SARS](/wiki/Severe_acute_respiratory_syndrome "Severe acute respiratory
syndrome") outbreak, as well as [terrorist threats](/wiki/War_on_Terrorism
"War on Terrorism") posed by the [Jemaah Islamiah](/wiki/Jemaah_Islamiyah
"Jemaah Islamiyah") (JI) [post-9/11](/wiki/September_11_attacks "September 11
attacks") and the [Bali bombings](/wiki/2002_Bali_bombings "2002 Bali
bombings"). In 2004, [Lee Hsien Loong](/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong "Lee Hsien
Loong"), the eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew, became the third prime minister.[3]
In 2024, Lee was succeeded by [Lawrence Wong](/wiki/Lawrence_Wong "Lawrence
Wong") as prime minister.

## Independence from Malaysia

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=1
"Edit section: Independence from Malaysia")]

See also: [Singapore in Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in
Malaysia")

Singapore became part of Malaysia on 16 September 1963 following a merger with
[Malaya](/wiki/Federation_of_Malaya "Federation of Malaya"), [North
Borneo](/wiki/Crown_Colony_of_North_Borneo "Crown Colony of North Borneo"),
and [Sarawak](/wiki/Crown_Colony_of_Sarawak "Crown Colony of Sarawak"). The
merger was thought to benefit the economy by creating a common, free market,
and to improve Singapore's internal security. However, it was an uneasy union.
Disputes between the state government of Singapore and the federal government
occurred on different issues, especially the federal policies of [affirmative
action](/wiki/Affirmative_action "Affirmative action"), which granted special
privileges to the Malays guaranteed under [Article 153 of the Constitution of
Malaysia](/wiki/Article_153_of_the_Constitution_of_Malaysia "Article 153 of
the Constitution of Malaysia"). Singapore Prime Minister [Lee Kuan
Yew](/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew "Lee Kuan Yew"), and other political leaders began
advocating for equal treatment of all races in Malaysia, with a rallying cry
of _"[Malaysian Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysian_Malaysia "Malaysian Malaysia")!"_[4]

Racial tensions between the Chinese and Malays increased dramatically,
resulting in numerous racial riots. The most notorious riots were the [1964
race riots](/wiki/1964_race_riots "1964 race riots") that first took place on
the [Mawlid](/wiki/Mawlid "Mawlid") on 21 July with 23 people killed and
hundreds injured. The price of food increased greatly when the transport
system was disrupted during the unrest, causing further hardship for the
people.

The state and federal governments also had conflicts on the economic front.
[UMNO](/wiki/UMNO "UMNO") leaders feared that the economic dominance of
Singapore would inevitably shift political power away from [Kuala
Lumpur](/wiki/Kuala_Lumpur "Kuala Lumpur"). Despite an earlier agreement to
establish a common market, Singapore continued to face restrictions when
trading with the rest of Malaysia. In retaliation, Singapore refused to
provide Sabah and Sarawak the full extent of the loans previously agreed to
for economic development of the two eastern states. The situation escalated to
such intensity that talks soon broke down and abusive speeches and writings
became rife on both sides. UMNO extremists called for the
[arrest](/wiki/Arrest "Arrest") of [Lee Kuan Yew](/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew "Lee Kuan
Yew").

Seeing no alternative to avoid further bloodshed, Malaysian Prime Minister
[Tunku Abdul Rahman](/wiki/Tunku_Abdul_Rahman "Tunku Abdul Rahman") decided to
expel Singapore from the federation. The Parliament of Malaysia voted 126-0,
with all Singaporean MPs boycotting the vote, in favour of the expulsion on 9
August 1965. On that day, a tearful Lee Kuan Yew announced on a televised
press conference that Singapore was a sovereign, independent nation. In a
widely remembered quote, he uttered that: _"For me, it would be a moment of
anguish. I mean for me, it is a moment of anguish because all my life... you
see the whole of my adult life.. I have believed in merger and the unity of
these two territories. You know it's a people connected by geography,
economics, and ties of kinship..."_[5] The new state became the Republic of
Singapore.

See also: [PAP-UMNO relations](/wiki/PAP-UMNO_relations "PAP-UMNO relations")
and [History of Malaysia](/wiki/History_of_Malaysia "History of Malaysia")

## 1965 to Late 1970s

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=2
"Edit section: 1965 to Late 1970s")]

After gaining independence abruptly, Singapore sensed the need for immediate
international recognition of its sovereignty. In this period, there were
regional conflicts as well as international tensions. The
[Konfrontasi](/wiki/Konfrontasi "Konfrontasi") was ongoing and some UMNO
factions strongly opposed the separation; Singapore faced the danger of being
attacked by Indonesian military or forcibly reabsorbed into Malaysia on
disadvantageous terms. With the help of the Malaysian, [Republic of
China](/wiki/Republic_of_China "Republic of China"), and Indian governments,
Singapore became a member of the [United Nations](/wiki/United_Nations "United
Nations") on 21 September 1965, and the
[Commonwealth](/wiki/Commonwealth_of_Nations "Commonwealth of Nations") in
October that year.

A new foreign ministry was established and was headed by [Sinnathamby
Rajaratnam](/wiki/Sinnathamby_Rajaratnam "Sinnathamby Rajaratnam") who helped
to assert Singapore's independence and established diplomatic relations with
other countries. The participation in international organizations also helped
to boost trade through cooperation. Singapore later co-founded the
[ASEAN](/wiki/ASEAN "ASEAN") on 8 August 1967, joined the [Non-Aligned
Movement](/wiki/Non-Aligned_Movement "Non-Aligned Movement") in 1970, and
later the [World Trade Organization](/wiki/World_Trade_Organization "World
Trade Organization").

In 1971, the Five Power Defence Arrangements (FPDA) between Singapore,
Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand and Britain was established. As a tiny
island, Singapore was seen as a nonviable nation state; much of the
international [media](/wiki/Mass_media "Mass media") was sceptical of
prospects for Singapore's survival. Besides the issue of sovereignty, the
pressing problems were unemployment, housing, education, lack of [natural
resources](/wiki/Natural_resource "Natural resource") and lack of
[land](/wiki/Landform "Landform").[6]

Singapore also faced the threat of terrorism. By the 1970s, the Malayan
Communist Party had split into smaller groups. While there were no longer a
formidable, unified force, the communists still posed a danger to the internal
security of Singapore. Police raids against these groups uncovered large
quantities of weapons such as pistols and grenades. During this decade, the
communists carried out acts of violence that included the killing of a 7-year-
old girl in Changi in 1970. There was also an explosion of a bomb in Katong in
1974, as well as the attempted assassination of Singapore's Commissioner
Police in 1976. Independent Singapore experienced its first encounter with
international terrorism on 31 January 1974 when foreign terrorists hijacked
the ferry boat Laju and held crew members hostage. The Terrorists had earlier
attacked the oil refinery on Pulau Bukom in an attempt to disrupt the oil
supply from Singapore to South Vietnam. After days of negotiation, the
hijackers finally agreed to release the hostages in exchange for safe passage
from Singapore to Kuwait. To ensure safe passage of hikackers of the Laju from
Singapore to Kuwait, a group of Singapore government officials, led by [S.R.
Nathan](/wiki/S._R._Nathan "S. R. Nathan"), accompanied by the hijackers on
their flight. Nathan was then Director of the Security and Intelligence
Division at the Ministry of Defense, and would later go on to serve as the
President of Singapore. The Singapore team comprised Nathan, eight government
officials and four Singapore Armed Forces commandos. On 9 February 1974, the
13 Singaporean Officials returned to Singapore from Kuwait.

The [unemployment rate](/wiki/Unemployment_rate "Unemployment rate") ranged
between 10 and 12% and it threatened to create civil unrest. The loss of
access to the Malaysian [hinterland](/wiki/Hinterland "Hinterland") market and
the lack of [natural resources](/wiki/Natural_resource "Natural resource")
meant that Singapore had no solid traditional sources of
[income](/wiki/Measures_of_national_income_and_output "Measures of national
income and output"). A large portion of the population lacked formal
education, even taking into account Chinese schools, which the British did not
recognize. [Entrepot](/wiki/Entrepot "Entrepot") trade, the main use of
Singapore's port and the original reason for Singapore's success in the 19th
century, was no longer sufficient to support the large population.

### Economic focus

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=3
"Edit section: Economic focus")]

Singapore invested heavily to promote economic growth. The [Economic
Development Board](/wiki/Economic_Development_Board "Economic Development
Board") was set up in 1961 by [Goh Keng Swee](/wiki/Goh_Keng_Swee "Goh Keng
Swee"), and with the assistance of Dutch economic advisor [Albert
Winsemius](/wiki/Albert_Winsemius "Albert Winsemius"), national economic
strategies were formulated to promote Singapore's manufacturing sector.
[Industrial estates](/wiki/Industrial_estate "Industrial estate") were set up,
especially in the reclaimed swampland of [Jurong](/wiki/Jurong "Jurong"), and
government ministers toured the world in order to try to attract foreign
[investment](/wiki/Investment "Investment"). The government offered new
investors [tax holidays](/wiki/Tax_holiday "Tax holiday") of 5–10 years.[6]

Singapore's port gave her an advantage over her neighbouring countries, being
a favourable spot for efficient exports of refined goods and imports of raw
material. This meant that industries in Singapore found international markets
easily, and cheaper prices for raw goods. Singapore's growing
[industrialisation](/wiki/Industrialization "Industrialization") meant that
entrepot trade had been extended into processing of imported raw materials
into exported finished products—leading to higher value-added goods which
brought more income to the island. This ended up being a suitable alternative
to a common market to the Malaysian hinterland, although later a form of it
ended up being formed with the creation of [ASEAN](/wiki/ASEAN "ASEAN").[6]

The [service industry](/wiki/Service_industry "Service industry") also grew at
this time, sparked by demand for services by ships calling at the port and
increasing commerce. This progress helped to alleviate the unemployment
problem. With Winsemius's help, Singapore attracted big oil companies like
[Shell](/wiki/Royal_Dutch_Shell "Royal Dutch Shell") and [Esso](/wiki/Esso
"Esso") to establish [oil refineries](/wiki/Oil_refineries "Oil refineries")
in Singapore which became the third largest oil-refining centre in the world
by the mid-1970s.[6]

The new direction that Singapore took demanded a skilled labour force to
engage in her revised role of refining raw goods, as opposed to the
traditional natural resource extraction industries of her neighbours. Its
leaders decided early on that the population would need to be fluent in the
English language, as they would be communicating and cooperating with
[expatriate](/wiki/Expatriate "Expatriate") employers or business partners
abroad, and English was adopted as the medium of education for all schools.

The education system was designed to be rigorous and intensive, with emphasis
on immediately [practical](/wiki/Pragmatism "Pragmatism"), rather than
[intellectual](/wiki/Intellectual "Intellectual"), applications, such as on
technical sciences as opposed to [political
discussion](/wiki/Political_science "Political science") or
[philosophy](/wiki/Philosophy "Philosophy"). A large portion, around one-fifth
of Singapore's budget, was devoted to education to facilitate a large and
competent workforce upon graduation. The government of Singapore currently
maintains it at this level.

### New housing

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=4
"Edit section: New housing")]

There was a lack of good housing and a proliferation of
[squatter](/wiki/Squatter "Squatter") settlements. Combined with the high
unemployment rate, this led to social problems from crime, a low standard of
living, and unrest. The other deleterious effect of squatter settlements was
that many of these were built of highly [flammable
materials](/wiki/Flammability "Flammability"), were poorly constructed and
thus posed a high fire risk. A prominent example in this case is the [Bukit Ho
Swee Squatter Fire](/wiki/Bukit_Ho_Swee_Fire "Bukit Ho Swee Fire") that broke
out in 1961. In addition, there was poor [sanitation](/wiki/Sanitation
"Sanitation"), which led to the spread of [infectious
diseases](/wiki/Infectious_disease "Infectious disease").

The [Housing Development Board](/wiki/Housing_Development_Board "Housing
Development Board") set up before independence continued to be largely
successful under [Lim Kim San](/wiki/Lim_Kim_San "Lim Kim San"). Huge building
projects sprang up to provide cheap, affordable public housing to resettle the
squatters, hence removing a serious social problem. 25,000 apartments were
built in the first two years. It was remarkable that, within a decade, the
majority of the population had been housed in HDB apartments. Possible
explanations for the otherwise seemingly impossible success was the
determination of the government, the large budget allocations, and efforts to
eliminate [red tape](/wiki/Red_tape "Red tape") and corruption. In 1968, the
[Central Provident Fund](/wiki/Central_Provident_Fund "Central Provident
Fund") (CPF) Housing Scheme was introduced to allow residents to use their CPF
savings to purchase HDB flats, which gradually increased home ownership in
Singapore.

Another problem facing Singapore was the lack of national identity and unity
among most of the population. Many people were born in foreign lands and still
identified themselves in terms of countries of origin, rather than being
Singaporeans. This posed the potential for problems with the loyalty and
reliability of citizens, and for the possibility of further racial riots. In
order to resolve racial tension, a policy to create national identity through
education in schools and flag raising and lowering ceremonies was implemented.
This was re-emphasized through the curriculum of "[National
Education](/wiki/National_Education "National Education")", a compulsory
program of which the main goal was to inculcate students with a sense of
"national fraternity". The [Singapore National
Pledge](/wiki/Singapore_National_Pledge "Singapore National Pledge"), written
by [Sinnathamby Rajaratnam](/wiki/Sinnathamby_Rajaratnam "Sinnathamby
Rajaratnam"), was introduced in 1966 emphasizing unity among the people
"regardless of race, language or religion."[7]

The [system of justice and law in Singapore](/wiki/Laws_of_Singapore "Laws of
Singapore") was reformed, and the government implemented several measures to
overcome labour unrest and disputes. Strict labour legislation was passed that
provided better protection to workers, but still allowed for greater
productivity by permitting longer working hours and reducing holidays.[6] The
labour movement was further consolidated under the [National Trades Union
Congress](/wiki/National_Trades_Union_Congress "National Trades Union
Congress") with close oversight by the government. By the end of the 1960s,
the number of labour strikes was significantly reduced.[6]

Singapore took the step of [nationalising](/wiki/Nationalization
"Nationalization") companies that would not survive on their own, or could
otherwise be detrimental for Singapore if, as [public
services](/wiki/Public_services "Public services"), they were not closely in
line with government policy. [Singapore Power](/wiki/Singapore_Power
"Singapore Power"), [Public Utilities Board](/wiki/Public_Utilities_Board
"Public Utilities Board"), [SingTel](/wiki/SingTel "SingTel") and [Singapore
Airlines](/wiki/Singapore_Airlines "Singapore Airlines") (SIA) are prominent
examples. Such companies that were nationalized were often infrastructure or
utility concerns, companies meant to lay out services such as electricity or
transport for the benefit of other companies. The extension of power
infrastructure, for example, led to an increased attraction of foreign
investors.
Recently[_[when?](/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Dates_and_numbers#Chronological_items
"Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Dates and numbers")_], the government has taken
steps to privatise these previous monopolies—SingTel and Singapore Airlines
are now publicly listed, limited liability companies, even though the
government still holds large shares in them.

### Independent defence force

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=5
"Edit section: Independent defence force")]

Another major issue brought up around this time was national
[defence](/wiki/Defense_\(military\) "Defense \(military\)"). Following
independence, the British were still defending Singapore, but had announced
they would be withdrawing by 1971, due to pressures at home and military
commitments elsewhere in the world. This caused considerable alarm locally,
particularly among those who remembered the [Japanese
occupation](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese occupation of
Singapore") during [World War II](/wiki/World_War_II "World War II").
Therefore, Singapore introduced National Service in 1967, which rapidly
expanded the defence force, known as the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF).
Thousands of men were conscripted for at least two years of full National
Service. Upon completing National Service, they would be liable for reservist
duties, which meant they would continue to receive occasional military
training and take up arms in times of emergency.

In 1965, [Goh Keng Swee](/wiki/Goh_Keng_Swee "Goh Keng Swee") became Minister
for the Interior and Defence, and initiated the formation of a national
defence force, called the [Singapore Armed
Forces](/wiki/Singapore_Armed_Forces "Singapore Armed Forces"), which was to
be established by the time of the British withdrawal. The British agreed to
postpone the withdrawal for half a year, but no longer. "Our army is to be
engaged in the defence of the country and our people against the external
aggression. This task we are unable to do today by ourselves. It is no use
pretending that without the British military presence in Singapore today, the
island cannot be easily over-run by any neighbouring country within a radius
of 1000 miles, if any of them cared to do so..." Dr Goh Keng Swee made a
speech to Parliament on 23 December 1965.

Singapore consulted international experts from [West
Germany](/wiki/West_Germany "West Germany") and [Israel](/wiki/Israel
"Israel") to train their armed forces and equip them. As a small country
surrounded by larger neighbours, Singapore allocated a large portion of its
budget, around 19%, to defence and this still continues today, having the
fourth largest [per capita](/wiki/Per_capita "Per capita") military
expenditure in the world, after [Israel](/wiki/Israel "Israel"), the [United
States](/wiki/United_States "United States") and [Kuwait](/wiki/Kuwait
"Kuwait").

Singapore was especially interested in Israel's model of [national
service](/wiki/National_service "National service"), a factor in its decisive
victory in the [Six-Day War](/wiki/Six-Day_War "Six-Day War") over its Arab
neighbours in 1967. This led to the implementation of [Singapore's own
national service programme](/wiki/National_service_in_Singapore "National
service in Singapore") starting in 1967. All eighteen-year-old males would be
required to participate in national service and train full-time for two and a
half years, and then required to repeatedly come back each year to maintain
their skills in order to carry out an effective
[mobilisation](/wiki/Mobilization "Mobilization") at any time.

This policy meant that Singapore could quickly mobilize enough defence forces
to deter any [invasion](/wiki/Invasion "Invasion"), especially against
Indonesia during the [Confrontation](/wiki/Indonesia-Malaysia_confrontation
"Indonesia-Malaysia confrontation"), when the British withdrew in September
1971. Females were left out of national service—the explanation being that,
during a time of war, they would be required to support the economy while the
men were fighting. This policy is sometimes questioned as being
[sexist](/wiki/Sexism "Sexism") and has been discussed in the [mass
media](/wiki/Mass_media "Mass media") a number of times together with the
length of training involved. The creation of the national service policy is
thought to aid the strengthening of national and racial ties since there is a
sense of unity when training as a youth with peers of other races.

## 1980s to 1990s

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=6
"Edit section: 1980s to 1990s")]

Further economic success continued through the 1980s onwards, with the
unemployment rate falling to 3% and real GDP growth averaging at about 8%
during this time until 1999. In the 1980s, Singapore faced the challenge of
needing to upgrade its industries to higher-technology industries, in order to
compete with its neighbours which were exporting the same things at a lower
price. Originally, Singapore manufactured goods such as textiles. A skilled
workforce with an aptitude for learning helped ease the transition, for
example, to new jobs in the [wafer fabrication](/wiki/Wafer_fabrication "Wafer
fabrication") industry, which was quickly being established in Singapore.

[Singapore Changi Airport](/wiki/Singapore_Changi_Airport "Singapore Changi
Airport") was opened in 1981. The development of air transport meant further
extension of entrepot trade as well as its intended purpose of attracting
investors through a convenient way to enter and leave the country. In
conjunction with Singapore Airlines, for example, the hospitality industry
grew immensely, which led to growth in the [tourism](/wiki/Tourism "Tourism")
industry.

The [Housing Development Board](/wiki/Housing_Development_Board "Housing
Development Board") continued to promote public housing. New towns, such as in
Ang Mo Kio, were designed and built. They have larger and higher-standard
apartments and are served with better amenities. Today, 80–90% of the
population lives in HDB apartments. With the justification of fostering
national unity, "racial harmony" and loyalty, the government explicitly
planned to group the different races together within the same estate, in order
to integrate the races. This HDB policy became a major contribution towards
the [Singaporean culture](/wiki/Culture_of_Singapore "Culture of Singapore").

[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2a/BukitBatok.JPG/300px-
BukitBatok.JPG)](/wiki/File:BukitBatok.JPG)Top view of Bukit Batok West. Large
scale public housing development programme has created high housing ownership
among the population.

Singapore also had to upgrade its military, for instance upgrading the
standard infantry weapon of its army. Formerly it had been the [L1A1 Self-
Loading Rifle](/wiki/L1A1_Self-Loading_Rifle "L1A1 Self-Loading Rifle"), it
was upgraded to the lighter, [United States](/wiki/United_States "United
States")-made [M16](/wiki/M16_\(rifle\) "M16 \(rifle\)"). A _[Total
Defence](/wiki/Total_Defence_\(Singapore\) "Total Defence \(Singapore\)")_
policy was created in 1984 with the intent of the population being prepared to
defend Singapore on five metaphorical fronts: economically, on a civil level
(including hospitals), a social level, a psychological level as well as on a
military level.

With continuous strong economic growth, Singapore became one of the world's
most prosperous countries, with strong international trading links. Its
[port](/wiki/Port_of_Singapore "Port of Singapore") is one of the world's
busiest and with a per capita GDP above that of the leading nations of Western
Europe. The education budget remains at one fifth or more, and many of its
practices, such as racial harmony, continue today.

A side effect of this was increasingly common [traffic
congestion](/wiki/Traffic_congestion "Traffic congestion"), and the first
[Mass Rapid Transit](/wiki/Mass_Rapid_Transit_\(Singapore\) "Mass Rapid
Transit \(Singapore\)") (MRT) line was established in 1987. It would later
grow to become an epitome of a well-integrated [public
transport](/wiki/Public_transport "Public transport") system. This network
also improved the convenience of travelling from one side of the island to the
other - a benefit which did not exist in the 1960s.

### Political system

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=7
"Edit section: Political system")]

The political situation in Singapore is extremely stable. The PAP had a
15-year monopoly in parliament during 1966 to 1981, winning all seats in
elections before [J. B. Jeyaretnam](/wiki/J._B._Jeyaretnam "J. B. Jeyaretnam")
of the [Workers' Party of Singapore](/wiki/Workers%27_Party_of_Singapore
"Workers' Party of Singapore") won the Anson constituency in a 1981 by-
election. The PAP rule is termed [authoritarian](/wiki/Authoritarianism
"Authoritarianism") by activists who see some of the regulations of political
and media activities as an infringement on political rights, perceiving them
as [authoritarian](/wiki/Authoritarianism "Authoritarianism"). This has been
the greatest complaint about the PAP by the opposition parties so far, the
[Workers' Party of Singapore](/wiki/Workers%27_Party_of_Singapore "Workers'
Party of Singapore") and the [Singapore Democratic
Party](/wiki/Singapore_Democratic_Party "Singapore Democratic Party") being
two of the prominent opposition parties who accuse the PAP of
authoritarianism.

The government of Singapore underwent several significant changes. [Non-
Constituency Member of Parliament](/wiki/Non-Constituency_Member_of_Parliament
"Non-Constituency Member of Parliament") was introduced in 1984 to allow up to
three losing opposition parties candidates be appointed as MPs. [Group
Representation Constituencies](/wiki/Group_Representation_Constituencies
"Group Representation Constituencies") (GRCs) was introduced in a 1988
amendment to the [Parliamentary Elections
Act](/wiki/Parliamentary_Elections_Act "Parliamentary Elections Act") to
create multi-seat electoral divisions, intended to ensure minority
representation in parliament. [Nominated Member of
Parliament](/wiki/Nominated_Member_of_Parliament "Nominated Member of
Parliament") was introduced in 1990 to allow non-elected non-partisan MPs.

The [Constitution](/wiki/Constitution_of_Singapore "Constitution of
Singapore") was amended in 1991 to provide for an [Elected
President](/wiki/President_of_Singapore "President of Singapore") who has veto
power in the use of national reserves and appointments to public office. The
opposition parties have complained that the GRC system has made it difficult
for them to gain a foothold in [parliamentary elections in
Singapore](/wiki/Parliamentary_elections_in_Singapore "Parliamentary elections
in Singapore"), and the [plurality voting
system](/wiki/Plurality_voting_system "Plurality voting system") in the
[constituencies of Singapore](/wiki/Constituencies_of_Singapore
"Constituencies of Singapore"), especially large group representation
constituencies, tends to exclude minority parties. The system has been
defended by the PAP because the system encourages representation of the
minority _races_ by requiring a minority candidate in group representation
constituencies.[8]

This however increases the difficulty of the opposition parties being able to
gain a seat. Until the [general election in
2006](/wiki/2006_Singapore_general_election "2006 Singapore general
election"), the PAP had always managed to return to power on nomination day,
even before the elections commenced since the amendment to the Parliamentary
Elections Act. The opposition accuses that the group representation
constituency is an intentional hindrance, as between 1991 and 2001 did not
manage to put forward enough qualified candidates to even contest the PAP's
mandate.

The arrest of [Chee Soon Juan](/wiki/Chee_Soon_Juan "Chee Soon Juan"), and the
lawsuits of slander against [J. B.
Jeyaretnam](/wiki/Joshua_Benjamin_Jeyaretnam "Joshua Benjamin Jeyaretnam"),
both opposition MPs, have been cited by the opposition parties as examples of
such authoritarianism. They also have been charged on the grounds of
[slander](/wiki/Libel_and_slander "Libel and slander") for political
criticism. The lack of [separation of
powers](/wiki/Separation_of_powers_in_Singapore "Separation of powers in
Singapore") between the court system and the government led to further
accusations by the opposition parties of [miscarriage of
justice](/wiki/Miscarriage_of_justice "Miscarriage of justice"). Further
arrests of those who were politically active against the PAP, such as [Francis
Seow](/wiki/Francis_Seow "Francis Seow"), and even students who have recently
entered [tertiary education](/wiki/Tertiary_education "Tertiary education")
are part of these accusations of authoritarianism.

In 1990, [Lee Kuan Yew](/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew "Lee Kuan Yew") passed the reins to
successor [Goh Chok Tong](/wiki/Goh_Chok_Tong "Goh Chok Tong"), who presented
a more open and consultative style of leadership as the country continued to
modernise. In 1997, Singapore experienced the effect of the [Asian financial
crisis](/wiki/Asian_financial_crisis "Asian financial crisis") and tough
measures, such as cuts in the CPF contribution were implemented.

## 2000 to present

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=8
"Edit section: 2000 to present")]

Singapore went through some of its most serious postwar crises, including the
[SARS](/wiki/SARS "SARS") outbreak in 2003, the [COVID-19
pandemic](/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic "COVID-19 pandemic") and the threat of
[terrorism](/wiki/Terrorism "Terrorism"). In December 2001, a [plot to bomb
embassies](/wiki/Singapore_embassies_attack_plot "Singapore embassies attack
plot") and other infrastructure in Singapore was uncovered and 15 members of
the [Jemaah Islamiyah](/wiki/Jemaah_Islamiyah "Jemaah Islamiyah") were
arrested under the [Internal Security
Act](/wiki/Internal_Security_Act_\(Singapore\) "Internal Security Act
\(Singapore\)"). [Major counter-terrorism measures](/wiki/Counter-
terrorism_in_Singapore "Counter-terrorism in Singapore") were put in place to
detect and prevent potential terrorism acts and to minimize damages should
they occur. Meanwhile, the economy was affected marginally during the crisis,
and in 2003, the average monthly household income was
[SGD](/wiki/Singapore_Dollar "Singapore Dollar")$4,870.

[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/a8/Workers_party_rally.jpg/350px-
Workers_party_rally.jpg)](/wiki/File:Workers_party_rally.jpg)One of the
[Workers' Party](/wiki/Workers%27_Party_\(Singapore\) "Workers' Party
\(Singapore\)") [demonstration](/wiki/Demonstration_\(people\) "Demonstration
\(people\)") rallies, this particular one at [Serangoon](/wiki/Serangoon
"Serangoon") Stadium. The opposition rallies were known for having a large
turnout.

In 2004, [Lee Hsien Loong](/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong "Lee Hsien Loong"), the
eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew, became the third prime minister of Singapore.[9] A
number of national policy changes have been proposed and carried out since
then. One of these changes was the reduction of National Service training
requirements from two and a half years to two during 2005. The government also
introduced a "Cutting Red Tape" program, which allows citizens to share their
views on law, punishment, social and world issues.

The [general election of 2006](/wiki/2006_Singapore_general_election "2006
Singapore general election") has been considered by analysts to be a landmark
election in the history of Singapore, because of the heavy use of the
[internet](/wiki/Internet "Internet") and [blogging](/wiki/Blog "Blog") that
covered the election, which escaped government regulation. Just before the
election, on 1 May 2006, the government issued a cash bonus, called the
"progress package" to all adult citizens, worth [SGD](/wiki/Singapore_Dollar
"Singapore Dollar") $2.6 billion. The PAP returned to power in the election
winning 82 out of 84 seats, and 66% of the votes. During the election campaign
period, there were large turnouts at many opposition rallies, with Malaysian
newspaper _[The Star](/wiki/The_Star_\(Malaysia\) "The Star \(Malaysia\)")_
estimating that over ten thousand people attended one rally held on 30 April
2006.

Singapore's bilateral post-independence relationship with Malaysia is complex
and rocky at times. Despite their differences, Malaysia remains an important,
albeit partial, economic hinterland and a regional ally, especially due to
both their memberships in ASEAN. This importance becomes especially apparent
when considering that much of Singapore's water supply comes from Malaysia.
Both countries have been known to chide or even issue threats to the other due
to differences in paths taken after independence, but fortunately this has
never become serious enough to develop into [embargo](/wiki/Embargo "Embargo")
or hostility.

There are increasing reforms in the education system. [Primary
education](/wiki/Primary_education "Primary education") was made
[compulsory](/wiki/Compulsory_education "Compulsory education") in 2003. This
style of educational policy was still extremely competitive, and favoured
those that did well initially, and tended to ignore the suffering students, in
the process of [streaming](/wiki/Streaming_\(education\) "Streaming
\(education\)"). This remains a controversial issue even today. It was theme
for the successful local film _[I Not Stupid](/wiki/I_Not_Stupid "I Not
Stupid")_ which also addresses the culture of competition induced by the post-
independence education policy. Although the education policy has evolved over
the years to address such concerns, the streaming issue is still prominent.

The [2013 Population White
Paper](/wiki/Demographics_of_Singapore#Population_white_paper "Demographics of
Singapore") was officially released by the government proposing a future
national population of 6.9 million due to growing concerns of rising life
expectancy, declining birth rates and ageing population foreseen of Singapore
in 2030.[10] This came after the formal launch of two [integrated
resorts](/wiki/Integrated_resort "Integrated resort"), which also became the
most profitable in the world in the same year.

## References

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=9
"Edit section: References")]

  1. **^** ["Road to Independence"](http://countrystudies.us/singapore/10.htm). U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 14 April 2006.
  2. **^** ["Country Groups"](http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/DATASTATISTICS/0,,contentMDK:20421402~menuPK:64133156~pagePK:64133150~piPK:64133175~theSitePK:239419,00.html). [The World Bank](/wiki/The_World_Bank "The World Bank"). Retrieved 2 May 2006.
  3. **^** ["Country profile: Singapore"](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/country_profiles/1143240.stm). _BBC News_. 15 July 2009. Retrieved 14 April 2006.
  4. **^** ["Singapore – Road to Independence"](http://countrystudies.us/singapore/10.htm). U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 27 June 2006.
  5. **^** ["Road to Independence"](https://web.archive.org/web/20131013002423/http://ourstory.asia1.com.sg/merger/merger.html). AsiaOne. Archived from [the original](http://ourstory.asia1.com.sg/merger/merger.html) on 13 October 2013. Retrieved 28 June 2006.
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ ["Singapore – Two Decades of Independence"](http://countrystudies.us/singapore/11.htm). U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 28 June 2006.
  7. **^** ["The Pledge"](http://www.sg/explore/symbols_pledge.htm). Singapore Infomap, Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts, Singapore. Retrieved 28 June 2006.
  8. **^** ["Parliamentary Elections Act"](https://web.archive.org/web/20170728163440/http://statutes.agc.gov.sg/non_version/cgi-bin/cgi_getdata.pl?actno=2001-REVED-218&doctitle=PARLIAMENTARY%20ELECTIONS%20ACT%0A&segid=946439076-000003). Singapore Statutes Online. Archived from [the original](http://statutes.agc.gov.sg/non_version/cgi-bin/cgi_getdata.pl?actno=2001-REVED-218&doctitle=PARLIAMENTARY%20ELECTIONS%20ACT%0A&segid=946439076-000003) on 28 July 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2006.
  9. **^** ["Lee Hsien Loong becomes prime minister of Singapore - Singapore History"](https://eresources.nlb.gov.sg/history/events/e65f9022-dcfc-4ee7-8049-ae2784b58d45). _eresources.nlb.gov.sg_.
  10. **^** ["Sustainable population for a dynamic Singapore"](http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/sustainable-population-for-a-dynamic-singapore). _[The Straits Times](/wiki/The_Straits_Times "The Straits Times")_. 30 January 2013. Retrieved 25 September 2015.

  * [v](/wiki/Template:Singapore_topics "Template:Singapore topics")
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Singapore_topics "Template talk:Singapore topics")
  * [e](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Template:Singapore_topics "Special:EditPage/Template:Singapore topics")

[Singapore](/wiki/Singapore "Singapore") [articles](/wiki/Index_of_Singapore-
related_articles "Index of Singapore-related articles")  
---  
[History](/wiki/History_of_Singapore "History of Singapore")|

  * [Archaeology in Singapore](/wiki/Archaeology_in_Singapore "Archaeology in Singapore")
  * [Early history (pre–1819)](/wiki/Early_history_of_Singapore "Early history of Singapore")
  * [Founding of modern Singapore and early colonial period (1819–1826)](/wiki/Founding_of_modern_Singapore_and_its_early_colonial_period "Founding of modern Singapore and its early colonial period")
  * [Straits Settlements (1826–1942)](/wiki/Straits_Settlements "Straits Settlements")
  * [Japanese occupation (1942–1945)](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese occupation of Singapore")
  * [British Military Administration (1945–1946)](/wiki/British_Military_Administration_\(Malaya\) "British Military Administration \(Malaya\)")
  * [Post-war Singapore (1946–1955)](/wiki/Colony_of_Singapore "Colony of Singapore")
  * [Self-governance of Singapore (1955–1962)](/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore "Self-governance of Singapore")
  * [Merger with Malaysia (1962–1965)](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in Malaysia")
  * Republic of Singapore (1965–present)

  
[Geography](/wiki/Geography_of_Singapore "Geography of Singapore")| | 

  * [Beaches](/wiki/List_of_beaches_of_Singapore "List of beaches of Singapore")
  * [Environmental issues](/wiki/Environmental_issues_in_Singapore "Environmental issues in Singapore")
  * [Geology](/wiki/Geology_of_Singapore "Geology of Singapore")
  * [Islands](/wiki/List_of_islands_of_Singapore "List of islands of Singapore")
  * [Parks](/wiki/List_of_parks_in_Singapore "List of parks in Singapore")
  * [Reservoirs](/wiki/List_of_dams_and_reservoirs_in_Singapore "List of dams and reservoirs in Singapore")
  * [Rivers](/wiki/List_of_rivers_of_Singapore "List of rivers of Singapore")
  * [Urban planning](/wiki/Urban_planning_in_Singapore "Urban planning in Singapore")
  * [Urban renewal](/wiki/Urban_renewal_in_Singapore "Urban renewal in Singapore")
  * [Waterways](/wiki/List_of_waterways_in_Singapore "List of waterways in Singapore")
  * [Wildlife](/wiki/Wildlife_of_Singapore "Wildlife of Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Politics](/wiki/Politics_of_Singapore "Politics of Singapore")| | 

  * [Administrative divisions](/wiki/Administrative_divisions_of_Singapore "Administrative divisions of Singapore")
    * [Town Councils](/wiki/Town_Council_\(Singapore\) "Town Council \(Singapore\)")
  * [Constitution](/wiki/Constitution_of_Singapore "Constitution of Singapore")
  * [Elections](/wiki/Elections_in_Singapore "Elections in Singapore")
  * [Foreign relations](/wiki/Foreign_relations_of_Singapore "Foreign relations of Singapore")
  * [Government](/wiki/Government_of_Singapore "Government of Singapore")
    * [Cabinet](/wiki/Cabinet_of_Singapore "Cabinet of Singapore")
    * [Prime Minister](/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Singapore "Prime Minister of Singapore")
  * [Human rights](/wiki/Human_rights_in_Singapore "Human rights in Singapore")
  * [Law](/wiki/Law_of_Singapore "Law of Singapore")
  * [Military](/wiki/Singapore_Armed_Forces "Singapore Armed Forces")
    * [Conscription](/wiki/National_service_in_Singapore "National service in Singapore")
  * [Parliament](/wiki/Parliament_of_Singapore "Parliament of Singapore")
  * [Police](/wiki/Singapore_Police_Force "Singapore Police Force")
  * [Political parties](/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_Singapore "List of political parties in Singapore")
  * [President](/wiki/President_of_Singapore "President of Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Economy](/wiki/Economy_of_Singapore "Economy of Singapore")| | 

  * [Economic statistics](/wiki/Economic_statistics_of_Singapore "Economic statistics of Singapore")
  * [Agriculture](/wiki/Agriculture_in_Singapore "Agriculture in Singapore")
  * [Aviation](/wiki/Aviation_in_Singapore "Aviation in Singapore")
  * [Monetary Authority](/wiki/Monetary_Authority_of_Singapore "Monetary Authority of Singapore")
  * [China–Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park](/wiki/China%E2%80%93Singapore_Suzhou_Industrial_Park "China–Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park")
  * [Dollar (currency)](/wiki/Singapore_dollar "Singapore dollar")
  * [Energy](/wiki/Energy_in_Singapore "Energy in Singapore")
  * [Labour](/wiki/Labour_movement_of_Singapore "Labour movement of Singapore")
  * [Proposed developments](/wiki/Future_developments_in_Singapore "Future developments in Singapore")
  * [Reserves](/wiki/Reserves_of_the_Government_of_Singapore "Reserves of the Government of Singapore")
  * [Singapore Exchange](/wiki/Singapore_Exchange "Singapore Exchange")
  * [Singapore Standard (SS)](/wiki/Singapore_Standard_\(SS\) "Singapore Standard \(SS\)")
  * [Telecommunications](/wiki/Telecommunications_in_Singapore "Telecommunications in Singapore")
  * [Tourism](/wiki/Tourism_in_Singapore "Tourism in Singapore")
  * [Transport](/wiki/Transport_in_Singapore "Transport in Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Society](/wiki/Category:Society_of_Singapore "Category:Society of Singapore")| | 

  * [Communitarianism](/wiki/Singaporean_communitarianism "Singaporean communitarianism")
  * [Caning](/wiki/Caning_in_Singapore "Caning in Singapore")
  * [Crime](/wiki/Crime_in_Singapore "Crime in Singapore")
  * [Driving](/wiki/Driving_in_Singapore "Driving in Singapore")
  * [Disability](/wiki/Disability_in_Singapore "Disability in Singapore")
  * [Women](/wiki/Women_in_Singapore "Women in Singapore")
  * [Education](/wiki/Education_in_Singapore "Education in Singapore")
  * [Demographics](/wiki/Demographics_of_Singapore "Demographics of Singapore")
  * [Eat Frozen Pork](/wiki/Eat_Frozen_Pork "Eat Frozen Pork")
  * [Five Cs](/wiki/Five_Cs_of_Singapore "Five Cs of Singapore")
  * [Health](/wiki/Healthcare_in_Singapore "Healthcare in Singapore")
  * [Long hair in Singapore](/wiki/Long_hair_in_Singapore "Long hair in Singapore")
  * [National Courtesy Campaign](/wiki/National_Courtesy_Campaign_\(Singapore\) "National Courtesy Campaign \(Singapore\)")
  * [National Day Parade](/wiki/Singapore_National_Day_Parade "Singapore National Day Parade")
  * [No U-turn syndrome](/wiki/No_U-turn_syndrome "No U-turn syndrome")
  * [OB marker](/wiki/OB_marker "OB marker")
  * [Population planning](/wiki/Population_planning_in_Singapore "Population planning in Singapore")
  * [Prostitution](/wiki/Prostitution_in_Singapore "Prostitution in Singapore")
  * [Public housing](/wiki/Public_housing_in_Singapore "Public housing in Singapore")
  * [Public holidays](/wiki/Holidays_in_Singapore "Holidays in Singapore")
  * [Sex trafficking](/wiki/Sex_trafficking_in_Singapore "Sex trafficking in Singapore")
  * [Smoking](/wiki/Smoking_in_Singapore "Smoking in Singapore")
  * [Social fund](/wiki/Central_Provident_Fund "Central Provident Fund")
  * [Water supply and sanitation](/wiki/Water_supply_and_sanitation_in_Singapore "Water supply and sanitation in Singapore")

  
---  
[Culture](/wiki/Culture_of_Singapore "Culture of Singapore")|

  * [Art](/wiki/Visual_art_of_Singapore "Visual art of Singapore")
  * [Architecture](/wiki/Architecture_of_Singapore "Architecture of Singapore")
  * [Cinema](/wiki/Cinema_of_Singapore "Cinema of Singapore")
  * [Cuisine](/wiki/Singaporean_cuisine "Singaporean cuisine")
  * [Dance](/wiki/Dance_in_Singapore "Dance in Singapore")
  * [Gambling](/wiki/Gambling_in_Singapore "Gambling in Singapore")
  * [Languages](/wiki/Languages_of_Singapore "Languages of Singapore")
    * [Singapore English](/wiki/Singapore_English "Singapore English")
  * [LGBT](/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Singapore "LGBT rights in Singapore")
    * [culture](/wiki/LGBT_culture_in_Singapore "LGBT culture in Singapore")
    * [history](/wiki/LGBT_history_in_Singapore "LGBT history in Singapore")
  * [Literature](/wiki/Literature_of_Singapore "Literature of Singapore")
  * [Mass media](/wiki/Mass_media_in_Singapore "Mass media in Singapore")
  * [Music](/wiki/Music_of_Singapore "Music of Singapore")
  * [Religion](/wiki/Religion_in_Singapore "Religion in Singapore")
  * [Sports](/wiki/Sport_in_Singapore "Sport in Singapore")
  * [Singaporeans](/wiki/Singaporeans "Singaporeans")

  
[Symbols](/wiki/National_symbols_of_Singapore "National symbols of
Singapore")|

  * [Anthem](/wiki/Majulah_Singapura "Majulah Singapura")
  * [Coat of arms](/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Singapore "Coat of arms of Singapore")
  * [Flag](/wiki/Flag_of_Singapore "Flag of Singapore")
  * [Flower](/wiki/Vanda_%27Miss_Joaquim%27 "Vanda 'Miss Joaquim'")
  * [Lion head](/wiki/Lion_head_symbol_of_Singapore "Lion head symbol of Singapore")
  * [Merlion](/wiki/Merlion "Merlion")
  * [Pledge](/wiki/Singapore_National_Pledge "Singapore National Pledge")

  
  
  * [Outline](/wiki/Outline_of_Singapore "Outline of Singapore")
  * [Index](/wiki/Index_of_Singapore-related_articles "Index of Singapore-related articles")
  * [Bibliography](/wiki/Bibliography_of_Singapore "Bibliography of Singapore")

  * [Category](/wiki/Category:Singapore "Category:Singapore")
  * [Portal](/wiki/Portal:Singapore "Portal:Singapore")

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&oldid=1247228714](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&oldid=1247228714)"

[Categories](/wiki/Help:Category "Help:Category"):

  * [History of Singapore by period](/wiki/Category:History_of_Singapore_by_period "Category:History of Singapore by period")
  * [Contemporary history by country](/wiki/Category:Contemporary_history_by_country "Category:Contemporary history by country")

Hidden categories:

  * [Articles with short description](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_short_description "Category:Articles with short description")
  * [Short description is different from Wikidata](/wiki/Category:Short_description_is_different_from_Wikidata "Category:Short description is different from Wikidata")
  * [Articles needing additional references from August 2020](/wiki/Category:Articles_needing_additional_references_from_August_2020 "Category:Articles needing additional references from August 2020")
  * [All articles needing additional references](/wiki/Category:All_articles_needing_additional_references "Category:All articles needing additional references")
  * [Wikipedia articles with style issues from September 2018](/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_with_style_issues_from_September_2018 "Category:Wikipedia articles with style issues from September 2018")
  * [All articles with style issues](/wiki/Category:All_articles_with_style_issues "Category:All articles with style issues")
  * [Articles with multiple maintenance issues](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_multiple_maintenance_issues "Category:Articles with multiple maintenance issues")
  * [EngvarB from January 2019](/wiki/Category:EngvarB_from_January_2019 "Category:EngvarB from January 2019")
  * [Use dmy dates from October 2020](/wiki/Category:Use_dmy_dates_from_October_2020 "Category:Use dmy dates from October 2020")
  * [All articles with vague or ambiguous time](/wiki/Category:All_articles_with_vague_or_ambiguous_time "Category:All articles with vague or ambiguous time")
  * [Vague or ambiguous time from August 2024](/wiki/Category:Vague_or_ambiguous_time_from_August_2024 "Category:Vague or ambiguous time from August 2024")

  * This page was last edited on 23 September 2024, at 11:26 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License](/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_4.0_International_License "Wikipedia:Text of the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License"); additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the [Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Terms_of_Use "foundation:Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Terms of Use") and [Privacy Policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy_policy "foundation:Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy policy"). Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.](https://wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit organization.

  * [Privacy policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy_policy)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer)
  * [Contact Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Code of Conduct](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Universal_Code_of_Conduct)
  * [Developers](https://developer.wikimedia.org)
  * [Statistics](https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org)
  * [Cookie statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Cookie_statement)
  * [Mobile view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile)

  * [![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)](https://wikimediafoundation.org/)
  * [![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)](https://www.mediawiki.org/)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

