The Kingdom of Singapura (Malay: Kerajaan Singapura) was a Malay Hindu-
Buddhist kingdom thought to have been established during the early history of
Singapore upon its main island Temasek from 1299 until its fall sometime
between 1396 and 1398. Conventional view marks c. 1299 as the founding year of
the kingdom by Sang Nila Utama (also known as "Sri Tri Buana"), whose father
is Sang Sapurba, a semi-divine figure who according to legend is the ancestor
of several Malay monarchs in the Malay World. The historicity of this kingdom
based on the account given in the Malay Annals is uncertain, and many
historians only consider its last ruler Parameswara (or Sri Iskandar Shah) to
be a historically attested figure in his role as the first ruler of the
Malacca Sultanate. Archaeological evidence from Fort Canning Hill and the
nearby banks of the Singapore River has nevertheless demonstrated the
existence of a thriving settlement and a trade port in the 14th century,
corroborating the eyewitness testimony of Yuan dynasty sojourner Wang Dayuan
concerning the settlements of Long Ya Men and Ban Zu upon Temasek. The
settlement developed in the 13th or 14th century and transformed from a small
trading outpost into a bustling center of international commerce, facilitating
trade networks that linked the Malay Archipelago, India, and the Yuan dynasty.
It was however claimed by two regional powers at that time, Ayuthaya from the
north and Majapahit from the south. As a result, the kingdom's fortified
capital was attacked by at least two major foreign invasions before it was
finally sacked by Majapahit in 1398 according to the Malay Annals, or by the
Siamese according to Portuguese sources. The last king, Parameswara, fled to
the west coast of the Malay Peninsula to establish the Malacca Sultanate in
1400. Etymology The name Singapura is derived from Sanskrit meaning "Lion
City". Singa comes from the Sanskrit word siṃha, which means "lion", and pūra
means "city" in Sanskrit. According to the Malay Annals, Sang Nila Utama and
his men were exploring Tanjong Bemban while in Bintan when he spotted an
island with white sandy beach from a high point. On learning that the island
was called Temasek, they set sail for the island, but encountered a severe
storm on the way. After they managed to land safely on the island, they went
to hunt for wild animals. He suddenly saw a strange animal with a red body,
black head and a white neck breast. It was a fine-looking animal and moved
with great speed as it disappeared into the jungle. He asked his chief
minister, Demang Lebar Daun, what animal it was, and was told that it probably
was an Asiatic lion. He then decided to stay in Temasek, named the city he
founded Singapura or "Lion City". Some scholars believe that Sang Nila Utama
and the story of its founding to be fictional, and a number of alternative
suggestions for the origin of the name of Singapore have been given. For
example, it has been proposed that the name Singapura was adopted by
Parameswara as an indication that he was re-establishing in Temasek the lion
throne that he had originally set up in Palembang as a challenge to the
Javanese Majapahit Empire. In this version of events, Parameswara had
assassinated the local ruler of Temasek and usurped the throne, and changed
the name of Temasek to strengthen the legitimacy of his claim over the island.
Others linked the name to the Javanese kingdom of Singhasari as well as a
Majapahit Buddhist sect whose adherents were referred to as lions. Although it
is believed that the name Singapura replaced Temasek some time in the 14th
century, the origin of the name cannot be determined with certainty.
Historiography The only comprehensive account of Singapore's history in this
era is the Malay Annals. These were written and compiled during the height of
the Malacca Sultanate and re-compiled in 1612 by the court of the Johor
Sultanate. It is the basis for accounts of its founding, the succession of
rulers and its decline. As no specific date is given in the Malay Annals, the
chronology of the history of the Kingdom of Singapura as set out in the Malay
Annals is calculated from the date of death of Parameswara given in the Ming
Veritable Records. While various aspects of the accounts of the Malacca and
Johor sultanates given in the Malay Annals are relatively accurate, the same
can not be said for the Kingdom of Singapura for which there is little
corroborating evidence for large part of its accounts. Historians are
therefore generally in doubt over the historicity of the kingdom as described
in the semi-historical Malay Annals, nevertheless some consider Singapura to
be a significant polity that existed between the decline of Srivijaya and the
rise of Malacca. Some also argued that the author of the Malay Annals, whose
purpose is to legitimise the claim of descent from the Palembang ruling house,
invented the five kings of Singapura to gloss over an inglorious period of its
history. However, Iskandar Shah/Parameswara, the last ruler of Singapura and
founder of the Malacca Sultanate, is a figure that could be considered
factual. Accounts of Singapura in its final years are also briefly given in
Portuguese sources, such as those by Tomé Pires, Brás de Albuquerque (who
published letters by his father Afonso de Albuquerque), Godinho de Erédia, and
João de Barros. For example, the Suma Oriental, written shortly after the
Portuguese conquest of Malacca, briefly mentions Singapura in relation to the
foundation of Malacca. Both the Suma Oriental and the Malay Annals contain
similar stories about a fleeing Palembang prince who arrived and lay claim to
Singapura, and about the last king of Singapura who fled to the west coast of
the Malay Peninsula to found Malacca. However, both accounts differ markedly
as the Suma Oriental identifies the fleeing prince and the last king of
Singapura as Parameswara. In contrast, the Malay Annals identifies the fleeing
prince and the last king as two different people separated by five
generations, Sang Nila Utama and Iskandar Shah respectively. The Suma Oriental
noted further that the fleeing Palembang prince assassinated the local ruler
"Temagi" or "Sang Aji" and usurped the throne of Singapura sometimes around
the 1390s, and Parameswara then ruled Singapura for five years with the help
of the Çelates or Orang Laut. Portuguese sources named Iskandar Shah as
Parameswara's son, Chinese Ming dynasty sources similar named Iskandar Shah as
the second ruler of Malacca. Many modern scholars believe Parameswara to be
the same person as Iskandar Shah, and some scholars argued that they were
mistaken as two different people due to Parameswara changing his name to
Iskandar Shah after he converted to Islam. There are however other opinions,
and many now accept Megat Iskandar Shah as the son of Parameswara. The only
first-hand account of 14th-century Singapore may be the descriptions of a
place named Danmaxi (generally identified with Temasek) written by Wang Dayuan
in the Daoyi Zhilüe, a record of his travels. It indicates that Temasek was
ruled by a local chief during Wang's visit around 1330, however the word used
(酋長, "tribal chief") by Wang indicates that the ruler may not have been
independent, rather he was a vassal of another more powerful state. Wang also
mentioned that the Siamese attacked the fortified city of Temasek with around
70 ships a few years before he visited, but Temasek successfully resisted the
attack which lasted a month. Other settlements on the island recorded by Wang
are Long Ya Men (identified with Keppel Harbour) and Ban Zu (possibly a
transcription of Pancur, or a sacred spring on Fort Canning Hill); the exact
relationship between these settlements is unclear. Archaeological evidence
Although the existence of the kingdom as described in the Malay Annals is
debatable, archaeological excavations on Fort Canning and its vicinity along
the banks of the Singapore River since 1984 by John Miksic have confirmed the
presence of a thriving settlement and a trade port there during the 14th
century. Remnants of a wall of significant size (described by John Crawfurd as
around five metres wide and three metres high) and unique to the region were
found inland along present day Stamford Road. Excavations also found evidence
of structures built on what is now Fort Canning Hill, along with evidence of
fruit orchards and terraces. Local lore when the British arrived in the early
1800s associated it with the royalty of ancient Singapura where its last ruler
was buried, and the hill was known to them as the Forbidden Hill (Bukit
Larangan), as it was the site of spirits. In 1928, a cache of gold ornaments
was found by workers excavating the hill for the Fort Canning Reservoir,
including a pair of near-identical flexible armlets, a finger ring inscribed
with a bird-like motif, three pairs of circular rings (perhaps earrings), an
elliptical ornament, and a jewelled clasp with a disc-and-conch motif. Most of
these were lost during the Japanese occupation of Singapore in the Second
World War, and only one of the armbands and two of the circular rings remain.
Numerous fragments of ceramics, porcelain, and other objects have been found
at three different locations around the Singapore River and Fort Canning Hill,
with those from Fort Canning Hill of a higher quality than the others,
offering further evidence that it was the residence of the elites, all of
which supports the notion that Singapore was a political and commercial center
in the 14th century. History The primary source concerning the history of the
rulers of Singapura are the Malay Annals, and the rest of this section is
mainly built upon reconstructions from its text, although corroborating
evidence is scarce and its polemic nature suggests against literal
interpretations of this chronicle. Other sources include the Yuan dynasty
merchant Wang Dayuan's compendium known as the Daoyi Zhilüe, Trần dynasty
annals, Portuguese apothecary Tomé Pires' Suma Oriental and scattered
references in the Majapahit Nagarakretagama and the 16th-century Javanase
court poem, Pararaton; as well as Ming records such as the Yuanshi. Sang Nila
Utama According to the Malay Annals, a fleeing Palembang prince named Sang
Nila Utama, who claimed to be a descendant of Alexander the Great (via his
Islamic interpretation as Iskandar Zulkarnain), took refuge on Bintan Island
for several years before he set sail and landed on Temasek in 1299. In this
era, Temasek was a small trading outpost and primarily inhabited by Orang Laut
seafarers. Historically, these Orang Laut were very loyal to the Malay kings,
patrolling adjacent seas and repelling other petty pirates, directing traders
to their Malay overlords' ports and maintaining those ports' dominance in the
area. These Orang Laut eventually declared him Raja ("king"), and Sang Nila
Utama renamed Temasek as "Singapura" and founded his capital around the mouth
of the Singapore River. The area was suitable for a new settlement due to the
nearby presence of a spring and a hill. The fresh water from a spring on the
hill's slope served both as a bathing place for royalty and, at the base of a
hill, a source of fresh water for the populace. The hill (modern-day Fort
Canning Hill) itself represented Mount Meru, the seat of the gods in Hindu-
Buddhist mythology, which was associated with kingship and divinity in ancient
Southeast Asian culture. Building a palace on a hill would have helped Sang
Nila Utama to assert his role as a semi-divine ruler. The king styled himself
as Sri Tri Buana, or "The Lord of Three Worlds", indicating authority over the
universe. Within a few decades, the small settlement grew into a thriving
cosmopolitan city serving as a port of call for richly laden trade ships
traveling through the Malacca Straits region. The Malay Annals mention that
supplies of workers, horses and elephants were sent from Bintan by the king's
adoptive mother, Queen Parameswari of Bintan. It was during this period that
contacts with Yuan dynasty China were established. It was recorded that in
1320, Yuan China sent envoys to Long Ya Men (thought by some to stretch from
modern-day Keppel Harbour south to the northwestern side of Sentosa and west
to what is today the Labrador Nature Reserve) "to obtain tame elephants", and
the natives of Long Ya Men returned with tributes and a trade mission to China
in 1325. Long Ya Men was part of Temasek (the Kingdom of Singapura) according
to Chinese traveler Wang Dayuan who visited Temasek in the 1330s and wrote an
account of his travel in the Daoyi Zhilüe. He describes Temasek as comprising
two settlements – "Ban Zu" (after the Malay word "pancur" or fresh-water
spring), a peaceful trading port city under the rule of the king. The second
settlement he describes as an area surrounding the "Long-ya-men", which was
occupied by ferocious pirates who launched frequent attacks on passing
merchant ships. He also notes that Chinese traders lived there, "side by side
with the natives". He also mentions some of the trade goods bartered in
Singapura: red gold, cotton prints, blue satin, lakawood and fine hornbill
casques. The Siamese attempted to subjugate the island kingdom in this period.
According to Wang's account, possibly a few years before he visited Temasek in
the 1330s, a Siamese fleet consisting of 70 junks descended upon the island
kingdom and launched an attack. The moated and heavily fortified city managed
to withstand the siege of the Siamese for a month until the Siamese fleet
withdrew with the arrival of a Yuan dynasty imperial envoy. Sri Wikrama Wira
In 1347, Sri Teri Buana was succeeded by Sri Wikrama Wira. The increasingly
powerful Javanese kingdom of Majapahit, the successor of Singhasari, began
eyeing the growing influence of the tiny island kingdom. Under the leadership
of its ambitious warlord, Gajah Mada, Majapahit started to embark on overseas
expansions against all kingdoms of the Malay Archipelago. In 1350, Hayam Wuruk
ascended to the throne of Majapahit. The new king sent an envoy to Singapura
demanding the submission of the kingdom. Wikrama Wira refused to do so and
even sent a symbolic message threatening to shave the Majapahit king's head
should he proceed to Singapura. The furious Majapahit king ordered an invasion
with a fleet of 100 main warships (jong) and many smaller vessels under the
command of Damang Wiraja. The fleet passed through the island of Bintan, from
where the news spread to Singapura. The defenders immediately assembled 400
warboats to face the invasion. Both sides clashed on the coast of Singapura in
a battle that took place over three days and three nights. Many were killed on
both sides and in the evening of the third day, the Javanese were driven back
to their ships. Sri Rana Wikrama Sri Wikrama Wira died in 1362 and succeeded
by his son, Sri Rana Wikrama. Despite the failure in the previous campaign,
the Javanese chronicle Nagarakretagama lists Singapura as a subject of
Majapahit in 1365. During his reign, Sri Rana Wikrama established a diplomatic
ties with a Sumatran Peureulak Sultanate. It was during the reign of Sri Rana
Wikrama that, the legendary Badang, was said to have demonstrated his feat of
strength in Rana Wikrama's court, including casting the Singapore Stone to its
location at the mouth of the Singapore River, where it stood until it was
demolished by the British East India Company. Sri Maharaja In 1375, Rana
Wikrama was succeeded by his son Sri Maharaja. According to the Malay Annals,
the reign of Sri Maharaja was marked with the event of todak (garfish)
ravaging the coast of Singapura. A young boy, Hang Nadim, thought of an
ingenious solution to fend off the todak by planting banana plants along the
shoreline, where they would get stuck whilst leaping out of the water. The
king was initially grateful, but felt increasingly envious of the attention
the boy's intelligence was garnering, and ordered to have the boy executed.
Iskandar Shah (Parameswara) In 1387, Paduka Sri Maharaja was succeeded by
Iskandar Shah, commonly identified as the king Parameswara mentioned in the
Suma Oriental of Tomé Pires. Based on his Persian name and title, it is
believed that Iskandar Shah was the first king of Singapura to embrace Islam.
Portuguese accounts by Pires however, suggested that the Iskandar Shah
mentioned in his text (and said to be Parameswara's son) only converted when
he was 72 as the ruler of Malacca. Fall of Singapura and establishment of
Malacca As mentioned in the Malay Annals, the story of the fall of Singapura
and the flight of its last king begins with Iskandar Shah's accusing one of
his concubines of adultery. As punishment, the king had her stripped naked in
public. In revenge, the concubine's father, Sang Rajuna Tapa who was also an
official in Iskandar Shah's court, secretly sent a message to the king of
Majapahit, pledging his support should the king choose to invade Singapura. In
1398, Majapahit dispatched a fleet of 300 jong and hundreds of smaller vessels
(of kelulus, pelang, and jongkong), carrying no fewer than 200,000 men. The
Javanese soldiers engaged with the defenders in a battle outside the fortress,
before forcing them to retreat behind the walls. The invasion force laid siege
to the city and repeatedly tried to attack the fortress. However the fortress
proved to be impregnable. After about a month passed, the food in the fortress
began to run low and the defenders were on the verge of starvation. Sang
Rajuna Tapa was then asked to distribute whatever grain left to the people
from the royal store. Seeing this opportunity for revenge, the minister lied
to the King, saying the stores were empty. The grain was not distributed and
the people eventually starved. The final assault came when the gates were
finally opened under the order of the minister. Knowing that defeat was
imminent, Iskandar Shah and his followers fled the island. The Majapahit
soldiers rushed into the fortress and a terrible massacre ensued. According to
the Malay Annals, "blood flowed like a river" and the red stains on the
laterite soil of Singapore are said to be blood from that massacre. Portuguese
sources give a significantly different account of the life of last ruler of
Singapura. These accounts named the last ruler of Singapura and founder of
Malacca as Parameswara, a name also found in Ming annals. It is generally
believed that the Iskandar Shah of the Malay Annals is the same person as
Parameswara. However, Portuguese accounts and Ming sources indicate that
Iskandar Shah was the son of Parameswara who became the second ruler of
Malacca, and some therefore argued that Megat Iskandar Shah was the son of
Parameswara. According to the Portuguese accounts, Parameswara was a prince
from Palembang who attempted to challenge Javanese rule over Palembang
sometime after 1360. The Javanese then attacked and drove Parameswara out of
Palembang. Parameswara escaped to Singapura, and was welcomed by its ruler of
with the title Sang Aji named Sangesinga. Parameswara assassinated the local
ruler after 8 days, then ruled Singapura for five years with the help of the
Çelates or Orang Laut. He was however driven out by the Thais, possibly as a
punishment for killing the Sang Aji whose wife may have been from the Kingdom
of Patani. Family Tree of the House of Sang Sapurba Administration The Malay
Annals provide a well-defined hierarchical structure of Singapura, which was
later partly adopted by its successor, Malacca. The highest hierarchical
position was the Raja (king) as an absolute monarch. Next to the Raja were the
Orang Besar Berempat (four senior nobles) headed by a Bendahara (equivalent to
a Grand Vizier) as the highest-ranking officer and the advisor to the King. He
was then assisted by three other senior nobles based on the order of
precedence namely; Perdana Menteri (prime minister), Penghulu Bendahari (chief
of treasurer) and Hulubalang Besar (grand commander). The Perdana Menteri
assisted the Bendahara in administering the internal affairs of the kingdom
and usually sat opposite to the Bendahara in the royal court, while the
Penghulu Bendahari was responsible for the financial affairs of the kingdom.
The Hulubalang Besar acted as a chief of staff of the army and commanded
several other Hulubalangs (commanders), who in turn led smaller military
units. The Orang Besar Berempat were assisted by other lower ranking officials
titled Orang Besar Caterias, Sida Bentaras and Orang Kayas. Trade Singapura's
rise as a trade-post was concurrent with the era known as Pax Mongolica, where
the Mongol Empire's influence over both the overland and maritime silk roads
allowed a new global trading system to develop. Previously, shipping occurred
on long-distance routes from the Far East to India or even further west to the
Arabian Peninsula, which was relatively costly, risky and time-consuming.
However, the new trading system involved the division of the maritime silk
road into three segments: an Indian Ocean sector linking the Gulf of Aden and
the Strait of Hormuz-based Arab traders to India, a Bay of Bengal sector
linking the Indian ports with the Strait of Malacca and its associated ports
including Singapura and the South China Sea sector linking Southeast Asia with
Southern China. Singapura achieved its significance due to its role as a port.
It seems to fit – at least in part – the definition of a port of trade in
which trade is less a function of the economy and more a function of
government policy; thus trading would have been highly structured and
institutionalized, with government agents playing key roles in port
activities. Portuguese traders' account in particular, suggest that Singapura
operated in such a manner. Reports from merchants of different countries also
indicate that Singapura was a point of exchange, rather than a source for
goods. Local products were limited in type and mainly consisted of lakawood,
tin, hornbill casques (an ivory-like part of the hornbill bird, which was
valued for carved ornaments), some wooden items and cotton. Other commonly
traded products included a variety of fabrics (cotton and satins), iron rods,
iron pots, and porcelains. Chinese traders also reported that there were very
few agricultural products due to poor soil. Although these goods were also
available from other Southeast Asian ports, those from Singapura were unique
in terms of their quality. Singapura also acted as a gateway into the regional
and international economic system for its immediate region. South Johor and
the Riau Archipelago supplied products to Singapura for export elsewhere,
while Singapura was the main source of foreign products to the region.
Archaeological artefacts such as ceramics and glassware found in the Riau
Archipelago are evidence of this. In addition, cotton was transshipped from
Java or India through Singapura. The increase in activities by Chinese traders
seems especially significant for Singapura and its trade. Wang Dayuan
indicated that, by this time, there was a Chinese settlement in Singapura
living peaceably with the indigenous population. Legacy According to the Malay
Annals, after sacking Singapura, the Majapahit army abandoned the city and
returned to Java. The city would have been ruined and greatly depopulated. The
rivalry between the courts of the Javanese and Malay in the region was renewed
a few years later when the last king Iskandar Shah, founded his new stronghold
on the mouth of Bertam River on the west coast of the Malay Peninsula. Within
decades, the new city grew rapidly to become the capital of Malacca Sultanate
and emerged as the primary base in continuing the historic struggles of
Singapura against their Java-based rivals. The account by João de Barros
suggests that Singapura did not end suddenly after the attack by the Siamese,
rather Singapore declined gradually when Parameswara's son Iskandar Shah
pushed for trade to move to Malacca instead of Singapura. As a major entrepot,
Malacca attracted Muslim traders from various part of the world and became a
centre of Islam, spreading the religion throughout Maritime Southeast Asia.
The expansion of Islam into interior Java in the 15th century led to the
gradual decline of Hindu-Majapahit before it finally succumbed to the emerging
local Muslim forces in the early 16th century. The period spanning from
Malaccan era right until the age of European colonisation, saw the domination
of Malay-Muslim sultanates in trade and politics that eventually contributed
to the Malayisation of the region. By the mid-15th century, Majapahit found
itself unable to control the rising power of Malacca as it began to gain
effective control of the Strait of Malacca and expand its influence to
Sumatra. Singapura was also absorbed into its realm and once served as the
fiefdom of a Melaccan Laksamana. The Johor Sultanate emerged as the dominant
power around the Straits of Singapore until it was assimilated into the sphere
of influence of the Dutch East India Company; the island of Singapore would
not regain autonomy from Johor until Sir Stamford Raffles claimed it and its
port for the British East India Company in 1819, deliberately invoking its
history as related in the Malay Annals, whose translation by Dr. John Leyden
he posthumously published in 1821. The dispute concerning Singapore's legal
status, along with other matters arising from British seizure of Dutch
colonial possessions during the Napoleonic Wars, was settled by the Anglo-
Dutch Treaty of 1824, permanently dividing archipelagic and mainland Southeast
Asia. The independent Republic of Singapore, following the confirmation of its
past as the Kingdom of Singapura through its archaeology, has promoted
Singapura's history as a regional emporium, showcasing it in the Maritime
Experiential Museum on Sentosa and incorporating the chronicle of Sang Nila
Utama into its primary school social sciences curriculum. As part of events
commemorating the bicentennial of Raffles' claim to Singapore, a statue of
Sang Nila Utama has been erected (along with those of other Singaporean
pioneers contemporary with Raffles) at the Raffles' Landing Site along the
Singapore River, which the Kingdom of Singapura was built upon. References ==
Bibliography ==

