Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * [Main page](/wiki/Main_Page "Visit the main page \[z\]")
  * [Contents](/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents "Guides to browsing Wikipedia")
  * [Current events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events "Articles related to current events")
  * [Random article](/wiki/Special:Random "Visit a randomly selected article \[x\]")
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About "Learn about Wikipedia and how it works")
  * [Contact us](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us "How to contact Wikipedia")

Contribute

  * [Help](/wiki/Help:Contents "Guidance on how to use and edit Wikipedia")
  * [Learn to edit](/wiki/Help:Introduction "Learn how to edit Wikipedia")
  * [Community portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal "The hub for editors")
  * [Recent changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges "A list of recent changes to Wikipedia \[r\]")
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard "Add images or other media for use on Wikipedia")

[ ![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)
](/wiki/Main_Page)

[ Search ](/wiki/Special:Search "Search Wikipedia \[f\]")

Search

  * [Donate](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en "Support us by donating to the Wikimedia Foundation")

Appearance

  * [Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Self-governance+of+Singapore "You are encouraged to create an account and log in; however, it is not mandatory")
  * [Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Self-governance+of+Singapore "You're encouraged to log in; however, it's not mandatory. \[o\]")

Personal tools

  * [ Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Self-governance+of+Singapore "You are encouraged to create an account and log in; however, it is not mandatory")
  * [ Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Self-governance+of+Singapore "You're encouraged to log in; however, it's not mandatory. \[o\]")

Pages for logged out editors [learn more](/wiki/Help:Introduction)

  * [Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions "A list of edits made from this IP address \[y\]")
  * [Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk "Discussion about edits from this IP address \[n\]")

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)
  * 1 Yearning for independence
  * 2 Partial internal self-government (1955–1959)
  * 3 Full internal self-government (1959–1963)
  * 4 Campaign for Malaysia Toggle Campaign for Malaysia subsection
    * 4.1 Referendum on joining Malaysia
    * 4.2 The difficulties of merger
  * 5 References

Toggle the table of contents

# Self-governance of Singapore

2 languages

  * [Bahasa Melayu](https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pemerintahan_sendiri_Singapura "Pemerintahan sendiri Singapura – Malay")
  * [Simple English](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore "Self-governance of Singapore – Simple English")

[Edit
links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q7448100#sitelinks-
wikipedia "Edit interlanguage links")

  * [Article](/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore "View the content page \[c\]")
  * [Talk](/wiki/Talk:Self-governance_of_Singapore "Discuss improvements to the content page \[t\]")

English

  * [Read](/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit "Edit this page \[e\]")
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/wiki/Self-governance_of_Singapore)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit "Edit this page \[e\]")
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Self-governance_of_Singapore "List of all English Wikipedia pages containing links to this page \[j\]")
  * [Related changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Self-governance_of_Singapore "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[k\]")
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard "Upload files \[u\]")
  * [Special pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[q\]")
  * [Permanent link](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&oldid=1253108530 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=info "More information about this page")
  * [Cite this page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Self-governance_of_Singapore&id=1253108530&wpFormIdentifier=titleform "Information on how to cite this page")
  * [Get shortened URL](/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FSelf-governance_of_Singapore)
  * [Download QR code](/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FSelf-governance_of_Singapore)

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=show-download-screen "Download this page as a PDF file")
  * [Printable version](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&printable=yes "Printable version of this page \[p\]")

In other projects

  * [Wikidata item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q7448100 "Structured data on this page hosted by Wikidata \[g\]")

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Historical progress from UK colony (1819) to sovereign state (1965)

[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/9/99/Question_book-
new.svg/50px-Question_book-new.svg.png)](/wiki/File:Question_book-new.svg)|
This article **needs additional citations
for[verification](/wiki/Wikipedia:Verifiability "Wikipedia:Verifiability")**.
Please help [improve this article](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Self-
governance_of_Singapore "Special:EditPage/Self-governance of Singapore") by
[adding citations to reliable sources](/wiki/Help:Referencing_for_beginners
"Help:Referencing for beginners"). Unsourced material may be challenged and
removed.  
_Find sources:_ ["Self-governance of
Singapore"](https://www.google.com/search?as_eq=wikipedia&q=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22) –
[news](https://www.google.com/search?tbm=nws&q=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22+-wikipedia&tbs=ar:1) **·**
[newspapers](https://www.google.com/search?&q=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22&tbs=bkt:s&tbm=bks) **·**
[books](https://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&q=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22+-wikipedia) **·**
[scholar](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22) **·**
[JSTOR](https://www.jstor.org/action/doBasicSearch?Query=%22Self-
governance+of+Singapore%22&acc=on&wc=on) _( April 2020)__([Learn how and when
to remove this message](/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal
"Help:Maintenance template removal"))_  
---|---  
Part of [a series](/wiki/Category:History_of_Singapore "Category:History of
Singapore") on the  
---  
[History of Singapore](/wiki/History_of_Singapore "History of Singapore")  
[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/44/Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg/150px-
Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg)](/wiki/File:Plan_of_the_British_settlement_of_Singapore_published_1828.jpg)  
[Early history](/wiki/Early_history_of_Singapore "Early history of Singapore")
(pre-1819)|  [Srivijaya](/wiki/Srivijaya "Srivijaya")|  650–1377  
---|---  
[Temasek](/wiki/Temasek "Temasek"), [Long Ya Men](/wiki/Long_Ya_Men "Long Ya
Men"),  
[Ban Zu](/wiki/Ban_Zu "Ban Zu")|  c.14th century  
[Kingdom of Singapura](/wiki/Kingdom_of_Singapura "Kingdom of Singapura")|
1299–1398  
[Malacca Sultanate](/wiki/Malacca_Sultanate "Malacca Sultanate")|  1400–1511  
[Johor Sultanate](/wiki/Johor_Sultanate "Johor Sultanate")|  1528–1819  
  
British colonial era (1819–1942)|
[Founding](/wiki/Founding_years_of_modern_Singapore "Founding years of modern
Singapore")|  1819–1826  
---|---  
[Straits Settlements](/wiki/Singapore_in_the_Straits_Settlements "Singapore in
the Straits Settlements")|  1826–1867  
[Crown
colony](/wiki/Singapore_in_the_Straits_Settlements#Crown_colony_\(1867–1942\)
"Singapore in the Straits Settlements")|  1867–1942  
  
[Japanese Occupation](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese
occupation of Singapore") (1942–1945)|  [Fall of
Singapore](/wiki/Fall_of_Singapore "Fall of Singapore")|  1942  
---|---  
[Sook Ching](/wiki/Sook_Ching "Sook Ching")|  1942  
[Double Tenth incident](/wiki/Double_Tenth_incident "Double Tenth incident")|
1943  
  
[Post-war period](/wiki/Colony_of_Singapore "Colony of Singapore")
(1945–1962)| [First Legislative
Council](/wiki/History_of_Singapore#First_Legislative_Council_\(1948–1951\)
"History of Singapore")|  1948–1951  
---|---  
[Maria Hertogh riots](/wiki/Maria_Hertogh_riots "Maria Hertogh riots")|  1950  
[Second Legislative
Council](/wiki/History_of_Singapore#Second_Legislative_Council_\(1951–1955\)
"History of Singapore")|  1951–1955  
[Anti-National Service Riots](/wiki/1954_National_Service_riots "1954 National
Service riots")|  1954  
  
Internal self-government (1955–1963)|  [Hock Lee bus
riots](/wiki/Hock_Lee_bus_riots "Hock Lee bus riots")|  1955  
---|---  
[Singapore Glass Factory strikes](/wiki/Singapore_Glass_Factory_strikes
"Singapore Glass Factory strikes")|  1960  
[Pulau Senang prison riots](/wiki/Pulau_Senang_prison_riots "Pulau Senang
prison riots")|  1963  
  
[Merger with Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in Malaysia")
(1963–1965)|  [Singaporean
referendum](/wiki/1962_Singaporean_integration_referendum "1962 Singaporean
integration referendum")|  1962  
---|---  
[Operation Coldstore](/wiki/Operation_Coldstore "Operation Coldstore")|  1963  
[Race riots in Singapore](/wiki/1964_race_riots_in_Singapore "1964 race riots
in Singapore")|  1964  
[MacDonald House bombing](/wiki/MacDonald_House_bombing "MacDonald House
bombing")|  1965  
  
[Republic of Singapore](/wiki/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "History of
the Republic of Singapore") (1965–present)| [ASEAN
Declaration](/wiki/ASEAN_Declaration "ASEAN Declaration")
([ASEAN](/wiki/Association_of_Southeast_Asian_Nations "Association of
Southeast Asian Nations"))|  1967  
---|---  
[1969 race riots of Singapore](/wiki/1969_race_riots_of_Singapore "1969 race
riots of Singapore")|  1969  
[Laju incident](/wiki/Laju_incident "Laju incident")|  1974  
[Operation Spectrum](/wiki/Operation_Spectrum "Operation Spectrum")|  1987  
[Asian financial crisis](/wiki/1997_Asian_financial_crisis#Singapore "1997
Asian financial crisis")|  1997  
[Embassies attack plot](/wiki/Singapore_embassies_attack_plot "Singapore
embassies attack plot")|  2001  
[H1N1 pandemic](/wiki/2009_swine_flu_pandemic_in_Asia#Singapore "2009 swine
flu pandemic in Asia")|  2009–2010  
[Bus drivers' strike](/wiki/2012_Singapore_bus_drivers%27_strike "2012
Singapore bus drivers' strike")|  2012  
[Little India riot](/wiki/2013_Little_India_riot "2013 Little India riot")|
2013  
[2018 North Korea–United States Singapore
Summit](/wiki/2018_North_Korea%E2%80%93United_States_Singapore_Summit "2018
North Korea–United States Singapore Summit")|  2018  
[COVID-19 pandemic](/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_Singapore "COVID-19 pandemic in
Singapore")|  2020–2022  
  
By topic

  * [Timeline](/wiki/Timeline_of_Singaporean_history "Timeline of Singaporean history")
  * [Riots](/wiki/List_of_riots_in_Singapore "List of riots in Singapore")
  * [Military](/wiki/Military_history_of_Singapore "Military history of Singapore")

  
![flag](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/48/Flag_of_Singapore.svg/16px-
Flag_of_Singapore.svg.png) [Singapore portal](/wiki/Portal:Singapore
"Portal:Singapore")  
  
  * [v](/wiki/Template:History_of_Singapore "Template:History of Singapore")
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:History_of_Singapore "Template talk:History of Singapore")
  * [e](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Template:History_of_Singapore "Special:EditPage/Template:History of Singapore")

  
  
The **self-governance of Singapore** was carried out in several stages. Since
[the founding](/wiki/Founding_years_of_modern_Singapore "Founding years of
modern Singapore") of [Singapore](/wiki/Singapore "Singapore") in 1819,
Singapore had been under the [colonial rule](/wiki/Colony "Colony") of the
British. The first local elections on a limited scale for several positions in
the [government of Singapore](/wiki/Government_of_Singapore "Government of
Singapore") started in 1948 following an amendment to the [Constitution of
Singapore](/wiki/Constitution_of_Singapore "Constitution of Singapore").

This was further amended with the _Rendel Constitution_ , strengthening local
representation. Singapore was granted full internal self-government in 1959,
but the colonial administration still controlled external relations and shared
control of several key internal policies such as [internal
security](/wiki/National_security "National security").

In 1963, [Singapore joined Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in
Malaysia"), relieving it of colonial rule and becoming an autonomous state
within the [Malaysian federation](/wiki/Malaysia "Malaysia"). After a fallout
in the [relations](/wiki/PAP-UMNO_relations "PAP-UMNO relations") between the
[United Malays National
Organisation](/wiki/United_Malays_National_Organisation "United Malays
National Organisation") (UMNO) and the [People's Action
Party](/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party "People's Action Party") (PAP), the
[ruling parties](/wiki/Ruling_party "Ruling party") of the Federation and
Singapore respectively, full independence came about with [Singapore's
expulsion from Malaysia in 1965.](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia#Expulsion
"Singapore in Malaysia")

## Yearning for independence

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=1
"Edit section: Yearning for independence")]

Following the end of the [Japanese occupation of
Singapore](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese occupation of
Singapore") during [World War II](/wiki/World_War_II "World War II"), the
British returned to power in Singapore. On 1 April 1946, the [Straits
Settlements](/wiki/Straits_Settlements "Straits Settlements") was dissolved
and Singapore became a separate [Crown colony](/wiki/Crown_colony "Crown
colony") with a civil administration headed by a Governor. In July 1947,
separate Executive and legislative councils were established and the first
local election for six members of the [Legislative
Council](/wiki/Legislative_Council_of_Singapore "Legislative Council of
Singapore") was held in the [1948 Legislative Council
elections](/wiki/1948_Singapore_general_election "1948 Singapore general
election").

The [Singapore Progressive Party](/wiki/Singapore_Progressive_Party "Singapore
Progressive Party") (SPP), a political party with a
[progressive](/wiki/Progressivism "Progressivism") platform of working with
the British for gradual reform and self-governance, won half of the seats.
This was technically a [plurality](/wiki/Plurality_\(voting\) "Plurality
\(voting\)"), as independent candidates won the other three: the SPP became
the ruling party of the local representation. The majority of seats were still
appointed by the colonial administration.

However, the early political leaders in Singapore did not press for self-
government. These early leaders were organised into two main parties, the
Malayan Democratic Union (MDU) and the SPP. The MDU wanted Singapore to join
the Federation of Malaya. The SPP wanted eventual self-government, but was too
comfortable with the existing situation of cooperating with the British
colonial government to set a target date.

The period after the war saw a political awakening amongst the local populace
and the rise of [anti-colonial](/wiki/Anti-colonialism "Anti-colonialism") and
nationalist sentiments, epitomised by the slogan _[Merdeka](/wiki/Merdeka
"Merdeka")_ , or "independence" in the Malay language. An important anti-
colonial incident was the [Maria Hertogh riots](/wiki/Maria_Hertogh_riots
"Maria Hertogh riots").

The British, on their part, were prepared to embark on a program of gradually
increasing [self-governance](/wiki/Self-governance "Self-governance") for
Singapore and Malaya,[1] although the British wanted to retain control of
Singapore because of Singapore’s important port facilities and resources of
rubber.

The prospects for self-government or independence for Singapore was initially
deemed to be less than optimistic. Within Singapore itself, there was little
demand for self-government, let alone independence. The communists were the
only group that wanted the British to leave, and the communist party was
illegal. In fact, the independence movement led by the communists convinced
non-communists that British presence was needed to prevent the communists from
taking over the government.

In 1953, a British Commission, headed by [Sir George
Rendel](/wiki/George_William_Rendel "George William Rendel"), proposed a
limited form of self-government for Singapore. A new [Legislative
Assembly](/wiki/Legislative_Assembly_of_Singapore "Legislative Assembly of
Singapore") with twenty-five out of thirty-two seats chosen by popular
election would replace the Legislative Council, from which a [Chief
Minister](/wiki/Chief_Minister "Chief Minister") as [head of
government](/wiki/Head_of_government "Head of government") and Council of
Ministers as a cabinet would be picked under a [parliamentary
system](/wiki/Parliamentary_system "Parliamentary system"). The British would
retain control over areas such as [internal security](/wiki/National_security
"National security") and [foreign affairs](/wiki/Foreign_policy "Foreign
policy"), as well as veto power over legislation.

The [1955 election for the Legislative
Assembly](/wiki/1955_Singaporean_general_election "1955 Singaporean general
election") held on 2 April 1955 was a lively and closely fought affair, with
several newly formed political parties joining the fray. Unlike previous
elections, voters were automatically registered, expanding the electorate to
around 300,000. The SPP was soundly defeated in the election, winning only
four seats. The newly formed, left-leaning [Labour Front](/wiki/Labour_Front
"Labour Front") was the biggest winner with ten seats and it formed a
coalition government with the [UMNO](/wiki/United_Malays_National_Organisation
"United Malays National
Organisation")-[MCA](/wiki/Malaysian_Chinese_Association "Malaysian Chinese
Association") Alliance, which won two seats.[1] Another new party, the
[leftist](/wiki/Left-wing_politics "Left-wing politics") [People's Action
Party](/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party "People's Action Party") (PAP), won three
seats.

## Partial internal self-government (1955–1959)

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=2
"Edit section: Partial internal self-government \(1955–1959\)")]

The leader of the Labour Front, [David
Marshall](/wiki/David_Marshall_\(Singaporean_politician\) "David Marshall
\(Singaporean politician\)"), became the first Chief Minister of Singapore. He
presided over a shaky government, receiving little co-operation from either
the colonial government or the other local parties. In May 1955, the [Hock Lee
Bus Riots](/wiki/Hock_Lee_Bus_Riots "Hock Lee Bus Riots") broke out, killing
four people, and seriously discredited Marshall's government.[2] The [Chinese
Middle School riots](/wiki/Chinese_Middle_School_riots "Chinese Middle School
riots") broke out in 1956 among students in schools such as the [Chinese High
School](/wiki/The_Chinese_High_School_\(Singapore\) "The Chinese High School
\(Singapore\)"), further increasing the tension between the local government
and the Chinese students and unionists who were perceived.

In April 1956, Marshall led a delegation to London to negotiate for complete
self-rule in the [Merdeka Talks](/wiki/Merdeka "Merdeka"), but the talks fell
through due to British concerns about communist influence and unrest and
[labour strikes](/wiki/Strike_action "Strike action") from workers and from
trade unions which were undermining Singapore's economic stability. Marshall
continued to pressure the British, before declaring that if the British did
not give Singapore self-rule, he would resign. However, the British were
unrelenting and wanted to retain important control over Singapore's internal
security. Marshall resigned following the failure of the talk. His successor
as Chief Minister, [Lim Yew Hock](/wiki/Lim_Yew_Hock "Lim Yew Hock"), launched
a crackdown on communist and leftist groups, imprisoning many trade union
leaders and several pro-communist members of the PAP under the [Internal
Security Act](/wiki/Internal_Security_Act_\(Singapore\) "Internal Security Act
\(Singapore\)").[3]

The British government approved of Lim's tough stance against communist
agitators, and when a new round of talks was held beginning 11 March 1957,
they were amenable to granting almost complete self-government, only retaining
control over external security, and allowing internal security to be an area
of shared responsibility between the local government and them.

When the talks concluded on 11 April, it was agreed that a State of Singapore
would be created, with its own citizenship . Singapore Citizenship Ordinance
1957 which commenced on 1 November 1957 provided Singaporean citizenship to
all people who were born in Singapore (except children of diplomats and enemy
aliens). People who were born in the Federation of Malaya or citizens of the
United Kingdom and Colonies who had been resident for two years, and others
who had been resident for eight years were able to register or naturalise as
Singaporean citizen. The Legislative Assembly would be expanded to fifty-one
members, entirely chosen by popular election, and the Prime Minister and
Cabinet would control all aspects of government except defence and foreign
affairs. On 1 August 1958, the State of Singapore Act would be given royal
assent after having been passed by the Parliament on 24 July, providing for
the establishment of the State of Singapore.

The British-appointed Governor was to be replaced by a _[Yang di-Pertuan
Negara](/wiki/Yang_di-Pertuan_Negara "Yang di-Pertuan Negara")_ , to represent
[Queen Elizabeth II](/wiki/Queen_Elizabeth_II "Queen Elizabeth II"), who
remained titular [head of state](/wiki/Head_of_state "Head of state").[4] The
British government would be represented by a Commissioner, who had
responsibility for defence and foreign policy, apart from trade and cultural
relations, and would preside over an Internal Security Council, consisting of
three members from the [United Kingdom](/wiki/United_Kingdom "United
Kingdom"), three from Singapore (including the [Prime
Minister](/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Singapore "Prime Minister of Singapore"))
and one from the [Federation of Malaya](/wiki/Federation_of_Malaya "Federation
of Malaya").[5]

## Full internal self-government (1959–1963)

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=3
"Edit section: Full internal self-government \(1959–1963\)")]

[Elections for the new Legislative
Assembly](/wiki/1959_Singapore_general_election "1959 Singapore general
election") were held in May 1959. This time round, the PAP swept the election,
winning forty-three of the fifty-one seats. They had accomplished this by
courting the Chinese-speaking majority, particularly those in the labour
unions and radical student organisations. The leader of the PAP, [Lee Kuan
Yew](/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew "Lee Kuan Yew"), became the first Prime Minister of
Singapore.

The PAP's victory was viewed with dismay by foreign and local business
leaders. Although Lee and the other leaders of the PAP hailed from the
"moderate" wing of the party, many of the other members were staunchly pro-
communist. Many businesses promptly shifted their headquarters from Singapore
to Kuala Lumpur.[3]

Despite these ill omens, the PAP government embarked on a vigorous program to
address Singapore's various economic and social problems. The plan for the
economy was overseen by the capable [Goh Keng Swee](/wiki/Goh_Keng_Swee "Goh
Keng Swee"), the new Minister of Finance, whose strategy was to encourage
foreign and local investment using a wide variety of measures, ranging from
low tax rates and [tax holidays](/wiki/Tax_holiday "Tax holiday") to the
establishment of a new [industrial estate](/wiki/Industrial_estate "Industrial
estate") in the [Jurong](/wiki/Jurong "Jurong") area.[3]

At the same time, the education system was revamped with the goal of suiting
the workforce to the needs of employers; more
[technical](/wiki/Technical_school "Technical school") and [vocational
schools](/wiki/Vocational_education "Vocational education") were established,
and [English](/wiki/English_language "English language") was promoted over
[Chinese](/wiki/Chinese_language "Chinese language") as a language of
instruction. The long-standing problem of labour unrest was suppressed by
consolidating existing labour unions, sometimes forcibly, into a single
umbrella organisation, the [National Trades Union
Congress](/wiki/National_Trades_Union_Congress "National Trades Union
Congress") (NTUC), which was closely affiliated with the government.[3]

On the social front, an attack was launched on the long-standing housing
problem by an aggressive and well-funded public housing program, overseen by
the [Housing and Development Board](/wiki/Housing_and_Development_Board
"Housing and Development Board") (HDB). Headed by the banker and industrialist
[Lim Kim San](/wiki/Lim_Kim_San "Lim Kim San"), the HDB constructed more than
5,000 high-rise, low-cost apartments during its first two years of
operation.[3]

## Campaign for Malaysia

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=4
"Edit section: Campaign for Malaysia")]

Main article: [Singapore in Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore
in Malaysia")

Despite their successes in governing Singapore, the leaders of the PAP,
including Lee and Goh, believed that Singapore's future lay with Malaya. They
felt that the historical and economic ties between Singapore and Malaya were
too strong for them to continue as separate nations, and campaigned vigorously
for a merger. On the other hand, the sizeable pro-communist wing of the PAP
were strongly opposed to the merger, fearing a loss of influence; the
government in Kuala Lumpur, headed by ruling party [United Malays National
Organisation](/wiki/United_Malays_National_Organisation "United Malays
National Organisation"), was staunchly anti-communist, and would support the
PAP in such an event against them.[3]

The UMNO leaders were also sceptical of the idea; there was some distrust of
the PAP government, and some were concerned that a merger with Singapore, with
its large urban Chinese population, would alter the racial balance on which
their political power base depended. The issue came to a head in 1961, when
[Ong Eng Guan](/wiki/Ong_Eng_Guan "Ong Eng Guan"), a long-standing member of
the PAP, stormed out of the party and beat a PAP candidate in a subsequent by-
election, a move that threatened to bring down Lee's government.[3]

Faced with the prospect of a takeover by the pro-communist wing of the PAP,
UMNO did an about-face on the merger. On 27 May, Malaya's Prime Minister,
[Tunku Abdul Rahman](/wiki/Tunku_Abdul_Rahman "Tunku Abdul Rahman"), mooted
the idea of [Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysia "Malaysia"), comprising the existing
Federation of Malaya, Singapore, [Brunei](/wiki/Brunei "Brunei") and the
British Borneo territories of [Sabah](/wiki/Sabah "Sabah") and
[Sarawak](/wiki/Sarawak "Sarawak"). They held to the idea that the additional
Malay population in the Borneo territories would offset Singapore's Chinese
population.[3]

The Malaysia proposal ignited the long-brewing conflict between the moderates
and pro-communists in the PAP. The pro-communists, led by [Lim Chin
Siong](/wiki/Lim_Chin_Siong "Lim Chin Siong"), left the PAP to form a new
opposition party, the [Barisan Sosialis](/wiki/Barisan_Sosialis "Barisan
Sosialis") (Socialist Front), to campaign against entry into Malaysia under
the conditions that the PAP wished. In response, Lee [called for a
referendum](/wiki/1962_Merger_Referendum_of_Singapore "1962 Merger Referendum
of Singapore") on the merger, to be held in September 1962, and initiated a
vigorous campaign in advocation of their proposal of merger, possibly aided by
the fact that the government had a large influence over the media.

The referendum did not have an option of objecting to the idea of merger
because no one had raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly before then.
However, the method of merger had been debated, by the PAP, [Singapore
People's Alliance](/wiki/Singapore_People%27s_Alliance "Singapore People's
Alliance") and the Barisian Sosialis, each with their own proposals. The
referendum was called therefore, was to resolve this issue.

The referendum called had three options. Singapore could join Malaysia, but
would be granted full autonomy and only with fulfilment of conditions to
guarantee that, which was option A. The second option, option B, called for
full integration into Malaysia without such autonomy, with the status of any
other state in Malaysia. The third option, option C, was to enter Malaysia "on
terms no less favourable than the Borneo territories", noting the motive of
why Malaysia proposed the Borneo territories to join as well.

### Referendum on joining Malaysia

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=5
"Edit section: Referendum on joining Malaysia")]

After the referendum was held, the option A received 70% of the votes in the
referendum, with 26% of the ballots left blank as advocated by the Barisan
Sosialis to protest against option A. The other two plans received less than
two percent each.

Orders from Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, Operation Coldstore was carried out
in Singapore in 2nd February 1963 with the arrest of more than 150
journalists, labor and student leaders, and members of political parties that
opposed Lee's People's Action Party (PAP).

On 9 July 1963, the leaders of Singapore, Malaya, Sabah , Sarawak and United
Kingdom signed the [Malaysia Agreement](/wiki/Malaysia_Agreement "Malaysia
Agreement") to establish the [Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysia "Malaysia") which was
planned to come into being on 31 August. Tengku Abdul Rahman later changed the
date to 16 September to allow United Nations to complete a survey with people
of Sabah and Sarawak on the merger.[3]

On 31 August, Singapore declared its independence from the United Kingdom,
with Yusof bin Ishak as the head of state (Yang di-Pertuan Negara) and Lee
Kuan Yew as prime minister; sixteen days later, Singapore would join the
Federation of Malaysia.

Singapore held polls for a general election as a state of Malaysia five days
after the merger in the [1963 state
elections](/wiki/1963_Singapore_general_election "1963 Singapore general
election") on 21 September 1963. The PAP won 71% of the seats, defeating the
Barisan Sosialis, but their popular vote had slipped to 46.9%.

### The difficulties of merger

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=6
"Edit section: The difficulties of merger")]

Due to worsening [PAP-UMNO relations](/wiki/PAP-UMNO_relations "PAP-UMNO
relations"), Singapore's status in Malaysia became increasingly tense as time
went on. Singapore retained its autonomy, but differences in racial policy
concerning issues of [racial discrimination](/wiki/Racial_discrimination
"Racial discrimination") affected Singapore. The UMNO backed [Article 153 of
the Constitution of
Malaysia](/wiki/Article_153_of_the_Constitution_of_Malaysia "Article 153 of
the Constitution of Malaysia"), which gave the government of Malaysia power to
enforce special social and economic privileges for the
[Bumiputra](/wiki/Bumiputra "Bumiputra"), which were ethnically and
religiously defined.

The PAP called for a [Malaysian Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysian_Malaysia "Malaysian
Malaysia"), that favoured all Malaysians, rather than specific ethnic groups.
Singapore was also required to pay the Federal Government a large percentage
of its budget, money which would not be necessarily returned as services
towards Singapore. At the same time, [free trade](/wiki/Free_trade "Free
trade") was not granted between Singapore and other states of Malaysia.

Following these difficulties, Lee Kuan Yew reluctantly signed a separation
agreement on 7 August, after [the Parliament of Malaysia voted for Singapore's
expulsion from the Federation](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia#Expulsion
"Singapore in Malaysia"). Singapore officially left Malaysia on 9 August 1965.

## References

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&action=edit&section=7
"Edit section: References")]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ ["Singapore – Aftermath of War"](http://countrystudies.us/singapore/9.htm). U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 18 June 2006.
  2. **^** ["1955– Hock Lee Bus Riots"](https://web.archive.org/web/20060511212836/http://ourstory.asia1.com.sg/independence/ref/hocklee.html). Singapore Press Holdings. Archived from [the original](http://ourstory.asia1.com.sg/independence/ref/hocklee.html) on 11 May 2006. Retrieved 27 June 2006.
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ ["Singapore – Road to Independence"](http://countrystudies.us/singapore/10.htm). U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 27 June 2006.
  4. **^** Edwin Lee Siew Cheng; Edwin Lee (2008). [_Singapore: the unexpected nation_](https://books.google.com/books?id=nSqXGSinwP4C&pg=PA139). Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. p. 139\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_\(identifier\) "ISBN \(identifier\)") [978-981-230-796-5](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-981-230-796-5 "Special:BookSources/978-981-230-796-5"). Retrieved 9 April 2011.
  5. **^** Paul H. Kratoska (2001). [_South East Asia, Colonial History: Peaceful transitions to independence (1945-1963)_](https://books.google.com/books?id=nSqXGSinwP4C&pg=PA139). Taylor & Francis. p. 275\. [ISBN](/wiki/ISBN_\(identifier\) "ISBN \(identifier\)") [978-041-524-784-9](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-041-524-784-9 "Special:BookSources/978-041-524-784-9"). Retrieved 23 March 2016.

  * [v](/wiki/Template:Singapore_topics "Template:Singapore topics")
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Singapore_topics "Template talk:Singapore topics")
  * [e](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Template:Singapore_topics "Special:EditPage/Template:Singapore topics")

[Singapore](/wiki/Singapore "Singapore") [articles](/wiki/Index_of_Singapore-
related_articles "Index of Singapore-related articles")  
---  
[History](/wiki/History_of_Singapore "History of Singapore")|

  * [Archaeology in Singapore](/wiki/Archaeology_in_Singapore "Archaeology in Singapore")
  * [Early history (pre–1819)](/wiki/Early_history_of_Singapore "Early history of Singapore")
  * [Founding of modern Singapore and early colonial period (1819–1826)](/wiki/Founding_of_modern_Singapore_and_its_early_colonial_period "Founding of modern Singapore and its early colonial period")
  * [Straits Settlements (1826–1942)](/wiki/Straits_Settlements "Straits Settlements")
  * [Japanese occupation (1942–1945)](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Singapore "Japanese occupation of Singapore")
  * [British Military Administration (1945–1946)](/wiki/British_Military_Administration_\(Malaya\) "British Military Administration \(Malaya\)")
  * [Post-war Singapore (1946–1955)](/wiki/Colony_of_Singapore "Colony of Singapore")
  * Self-governance of Singapore (1955–1962)
  * [Merger with Malaysia (1962–1965)](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in Malaysia")
  * [Republic of Singapore (1965–present)](/wiki/History_of_the_Republic_of_Singapore "History of the Republic of Singapore")

  
[Geography](/wiki/Geography_of_Singapore "Geography of Singapore")| | 

  * [Beaches](/wiki/List_of_beaches_of_Singapore "List of beaches of Singapore")
  * [Environmental issues](/wiki/Environmental_issues_in_Singapore "Environmental issues in Singapore")
  * [Geology](/wiki/Geology_of_Singapore "Geology of Singapore")
  * [Islands](/wiki/List_of_islands_of_Singapore "List of islands of Singapore")
  * [Parks](/wiki/List_of_parks_in_Singapore "List of parks in Singapore")
  * [Reservoirs](/wiki/List_of_dams_and_reservoirs_in_Singapore "List of dams and reservoirs in Singapore")
  * [Rivers](/wiki/List_of_rivers_of_Singapore "List of rivers of Singapore")
  * [Urban planning](/wiki/Urban_planning_in_Singapore "Urban planning in Singapore")
  * [Urban renewal](/wiki/Urban_renewal_in_Singapore "Urban renewal in Singapore")
  * [Waterways](/wiki/List_of_waterways_in_Singapore "List of waterways in Singapore")
  * [Wildlife](/wiki/Wildlife_of_Singapore "Wildlife of Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Politics](/wiki/Politics_of_Singapore "Politics of Singapore")| | 

  * [Administrative divisions](/wiki/Administrative_divisions_of_Singapore "Administrative divisions of Singapore")
    * [Town Councils](/wiki/Town_Council_\(Singapore\) "Town Council \(Singapore\)")
  * [Constitution](/wiki/Constitution_of_Singapore "Constitution of Singapore")
  * [Elections](/wiki/Elections_in_Singapore "Elections in Singapore")
  * [Foreign relations](/wiki/Foreign_relations_of_Singapore "Foreign relations of Singapore")
  * [Government](/wiki/Government_of_Singapore "Government of Singapore")
    * [Cabinet](/wiki/Cabinet_of_Singapore "Cabinet of Singapore")
    * [Prime Minister](/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Singapore "Prime Minister of Singapore")
  * [Human rights](/wiki/Human_rights_in_Singapore "Human rights in Singapore")
  * [Law](/wiki/Law_of_Singapore "Law of Singapore")
  * [Military](/wiki/Singapore_Armed_Forces "Singapore Armed Forces")
    * [Conscription](/wiki/National_service_in_Singapore "National service in Singapore")
  * [Parliament](/wiki/Parliament_of_Singapore "Parliament of Singapore")
  * [Police](/wiki/Singapore_Police_Force "Singapore Police Force")
  * [Political parties](/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_Singapore "List of political parties in Singapore")
  * [President](/wiki/President_of_Singapore "President of Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Economy](/wiki/Economy_of_Singapore "Economy of Singapore")| | 

  * [Economic statistics](/wiki/Economic_statistics_of_Singapore "Economic statistics of Singapore")
  * [Agriculture](/wiki/Agriculture_in_Singapore "Agriculture in Singapore")
  * [Aviation](/wiki/Aviation_in_Singapore "Aviation in Singapore")
  * [Monetary Authority](/wiki/Monetary_Authority_of_Singapore "Monetary Authority of Singapore")
  * [China–Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park](/wiki/China%E2%80%93Singapore_Suzhou_Industrial_Park "China–Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park")
  * [Dollar (currency)](/wiki/Singapore_dollar "Singapore dollar")
  * [Energy](/wiki/Energy_in_Singapore "Energy in Singapore")
  * [Labour](/wiki/Labour_movement_of_Singapore "Labour movement of Singapore")
  * [Proposed developments](/wiki/Future_developments_in_Singapore "Future developments in Singapore")
  * [Reserves](/wiki/Reserves_of_the_Government_of_Singapore "Reserves of the Government of Singapore")
  * [Singapore Exchange](/wiki/Singapore_Exchange "Singapore Exchange")
  * [Singapore Standard (SS)](/wiki/Singapore_Standard_\(SS\) "Singapore Standard \(SS\)")
  * [Telecommunications](/wiki/Telecommunications_in_Singapore "Telecommunications in Singapore")
  * [Tourism](/wiki/Tourism_in_Singapore "Tourism in Singapore")
  * [Transport](/wiki/Transport_in_Singapore "Transport in Singapore")

  
---  
  
[Society](/wiki/Category:Society_of_Singapore "Category:Society of Singapore")| | 

  * [Communitarianism](/wiki/Singaporean_communitarianism "Singaporean communitarianism")
  * [Caning](/wiki/Caning_in_Singapore "Caning in Singapore")
  * [Crime](/wiki/Crime_in_Singapore "Crime in Singapore")
  * [Driving](/wiki/Driving_in_Singapore "Driving in Singapore")
  * [Disability](/wiki/Disability_in_Singapore "Disability in Singapore")
  * [Women](/wiki/Women_in_Singapore "Women in Singapore")
  * [Education](/wiki/Education_in_Singapore "Education in Singapore")
  * [Demographics](/wiki/Demographics_of_Singapore "Demographics of Singapore")
  * [Eat Frozen Pork](/wiki/Eat_Frozen_Pork "Eat Frozen Pork")
  * [Five Cs](/wiki/Five_Cs_of_Singapore "Five Cs of Singapore")
  * [Health](/wiki/Healthcare_in_Singapore "Healthcare in Singapore")
  * [Long hair in Singapore](/wiki/Long_hair_in_Singapore "Long hair in Singapore")
  * [National Courtesy Campaign](/wiki/National_Courtesy_Campaign_\(Singapore\) "National Courtesy Campaign \(Singapore\)")
  * [National Day Parade](/wiki/Singapore_National_Day_Parade "Singapore National Day Parade")
  * [No U-turn syndrome](/wiki/No_U-turn_syndrome "No U-turn syndrome")
  * [OB marker](/wiki/OB_marker "OB marker")
  * [Population planning](/wiki/Population_planning_in_Singapore "Population planning in Singapore")
  * [Prostitution](/wiki/Prostitution_in_Singapore "Prostitution in Singapore")
  * [Public housing](/wiki/Public_housing_in_Singapore "Public housing in Singapore")
  * [Public holidays](/wiki/Holidays_in_Singapore "Holidays in Singapore")
  * [Sex trafficking](/wiki/Sex_trafficking_in_Singapore "Sex trafficking in Singapore")
  * [Smoking](/wiki/Smoking_in_Singapore "Smoking in Singapore")
  * [Social fund](/wiki/Central_Provident_Fund "Central Provident Fund")
  * [Water supply and sanitation](/wiki/Water_supply_and_sanitation_in_Singapore "Water supply and sanitation in Singapore")

  
---  
[Culture](/wiki/Culture_of_Singapore "Culture of Singapore")|

  * [Art](/wiki/Visual_art_of_Singapore "Visual art of Singapore")
  * [Architecture](/wiki/Architecture_of_Singapore "Architecture of Singapore")
  * [Cinema](/wiki/Cinema_of_Singapore "Cinema of Singapore")
  * [Cuisine](/wiki/Singaporean_cuisine "Singaporean cuisine")
  * [Dance](/wiki/Dance_in_Singapore "Dance in Singapore")
  * [Gambling](/wiki/Gambling_in_Singapore "Gambling in Singapore")
  * [Languages](/wiki/Languages_of_Singapore "Languages of Singapore")
    * [Singapore English](/wiki/Singapore_English "Singapore English")
  * [LGBT](/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Singapore "LGBT rights in Singapore")
    * [culture](/wiki/LGBT_culture_in_Singapore "LGBT culture in Singapore")
    * [history](/wiki/LGBT_history_in_Singapore "LGBT history in Singapore")
  * [Literature](/wiki/Literature_of_Singapore "Literature of Singapore")
  * [Mass media](/wiki/Mass_media_in_Singapore "Mass media in Singapore")
  * [Music](/wiki/Music_of_Singapore "Music of Singapore")
  * [Religion](/wiki/Religion_in_Singapore "Religion in Singapore")
  * [Sports](/wiki/Sport_in_Singapore "Sport in Singapore")
  * [Singaporeans](/wiki/Singaporeans "Singaporeans")

  
[Symbols](/wiki/National_symbols_of_Singapore "National symbols of
Singapore")|

  * [Anthem](/wiki/Majulah_Singapura "Majulah Singapura")
  * [Coat of arms](/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Singapore "Coat of arms of Singapore")
  * [Flag](/wiki/Flag_of_Singapore "Flag of Singapore")
  * [Flower](/wiki/Vanda_%27Miss_Joaquim%27 "Vanda 'Miss Joaquim'")
  * [Lion head](/wiki/Lion_head_symbol_of_Singapore "Lion head symbol of Singapore")
  * [Merlion](/wiki/Merlion "Merlion")
  * [Pledge](/wiki/Singapore_National_Pledge "Singapore National Pledge")

  
  
  * [Outline](/wiki/Outline_of_Singapore "Outline of Singapore")
  * [Index](/wiki/Index_of_Singapore-related_articles "Index of Singapore-related articles")
  * [Bibliography](/wiki/Bibliography_of_Singapore "Bibliography of Singapore")

  * [Category](/wiki/Category:Singapore "Category:Singapore")
  * [Portal](/wiki/Portal:Singapore "Portal:Singapore")

  
  
  * [v](/wiki/Template:Malaysia_topics "Template:Malaysia topics")
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Malaysia_topics "Template talk:Malaysia topics")
  * [e](/wiki/Special:EditPage/Template:Malaysia_topics "Special:EditPage/Template:Malaysia topics")

[Malaysia](/wiki/Malaysia "Malaysia") [articles](/wiki/Outline_of_Malaysia
"Outline of Malaysia")  
---  
[History](/wiki/History_of_Malaysia "History of Malaysia")|

  * [Timeline](/wiki/Timeline_of_Malaysian_history "Timeline of Malaysian history")
  * [Prehistoric](/wiki/Prehistoric_Malaysia "Prehistoric Malaysia")
  * [Portuguese Malacca](/wiki/Portuguese_Malacca "Portuguese Malacca")
  * [Dutch Malacca](/wiki/Dutch_Malacca "Dutch Malacca")
  * [British Malaya](/wiki/British_Malaya "British Malaya")
  * [British Borneo](/wiki/British_Borneo "British Borneo")
  * [Japanese occupation of Malaya](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_Malaya "Japanese occupation of Malaya") / [Borneo](/wiki/Japanese_occupation_of_British_Borneo "Japanese occupation of British Borneo")
  * [Malayan Union](/wiki/Malayan_Union "Malayan Union")
  * [Federation of Malaya](/wiki/Federation_of_Malaya "Federation of Malaya")
  * [Malayan Emergency](/wiki/Malayan_Emergency "Malayan Emergency")
  * [Malaysia Agreement](/wiki/Malaysia_Agreement "Malaysia Agreement")
  * [Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation](/wiki/Indonesia%E2%80%93Malaysia_confrontation "Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation")
  * [Sarawak communist insurgency](/wiki/Communist_insurgency_in_Sarawak "Communist insurgency in Sarawak")
  * [Singapore in Malaysia](/wiki/Singapore_in_Malaysia "Singapore in Malaysia")
  * [Second Malayan Emergency](/wiki/Communist_insurgency_in_Malaysia_\(1968%E2%80%931989\) "Communist insurgency in Malaysia \(1968–1989\)")
  * [13 May incident](/wiki/13_May_incident "13 May incident")
  * [1988 constitutional crisis](/wiki/1988_Malaysian_constitutional_crisis "1988 Malaysian constitutional crisis")
  * [1997 Asian financial crisis](/wiki/1997_Asian_financial_crisis#Malaysia "1997 Asian financial crisis")
  * [1MDB scandal](/wiki/1Malaysia_Development_Berhad_scandal "1Malaysia Development Berhad scandal")
  * [2020–2022 Malaysian political crisis](/wiki/2020%E2%80%932022_Malaysian_political_crisis "2020–2022 Malaysian political crisis")

  
[Geography](/wiki/Geography_of_Malaysia "Geography of Malaysia")| | 

  * [Borders](/wiki/Template:Borders_of_Malaysia "Template:Borders of Malaysia")
  * [Cities, towns and villages](/wiki/Category:Populated_places_in_Malaysia "Category:Populated places in Malaysia")
  * [Districts](/wiki/List_of_districts_in_Malaysia "List of districts in Malaysia")
  * [Divisions](/wiki/Divisions_of_Malaysia "Divisions of Malaysia")
  * [East Malaysia](/wiki/East_Malaysia "East Malaysia")
  * [Environment](/wiki/Environment_of_Malaysia "Environment of Malaysia")
    * [climate change](/wiki/Climate_change_in_Malaysia "Climate change in Malaysia")
    * [conservation](/wiki/Conservation_in_Malaysia "Conservation in Malaysia")
    * [environmental issues](/wiki/Environmental_issues_in_Malaysia "Environmental issues in Malaysia")
    * [deforestation](/wiki/Deforestation_in_Malaysia "Deforestation in Malaysia")
    * [wildlife](/wiki/Wildlife_of_Malaysia "Wildlife of Malaysia")
    * [plants](/wiki/List_of_plants_of_Malaysia "List of plants of Malaysia")
  * [World Heritage Sites](/wiki/List_of_World_Heritage_Sites_in_Malaysia "List of World Heritage Sites in Malaysia")
  * [Hill stations](/wiki/List_of_hill_stations_in_Malaysia "List of hill stations in Malaysia")
  * [Islands](/wiki/List_of_islands_of_Malaysia "List of islands of Malaysia")
  * [Lakes](/wiki/List_of_lakes_of_Malaysia "List of lakes of Malaysia")
  * [Mountains](/wiki/List_of_mountains_in_Malaysia "List of mountains in Malaysia")
  * [National parks](/wiki/List_of_national_parks_in_Malaysia "List of national parks in Malaysia")
  * [Peninsular Malaysia](/wiki/Peninsular_Malaysia "Peninsular Malaysia")
  * [Rivers](/wiki/List_of_rivers_of_Malaysia "List of rivers of Malaysia")
  * [States](/wiki/States_and_federal_territories_of_Malaysia "States and federal territories of Malaysia")
  * [Earthquakes](/wiki/List_of_earthquakes_in_Malaysia "List of earthquakes in Malaysia")
  * [Volcanoes](/wiki/List_of_volcanoes_in_Malaysia "List of volcanoes in Malaysia")

  
---  
  
[Politics](/wiki/Politics_of_Malaysia "Politics of Malaysia")| | 

  * [Cabinet](/wiki/Cabinet_of_Malaysia "Cabinet of Malaysia")
  * [Shadow Cabinet](/wiki/Shadow_Cabinet_of_Malaysia "Shadow Cabinet of Malaysia")
  * [Constitution](/wiki/Constitution_of_Malaysia "Constitution of Malaysia")
  * [Elections](/wiki/Elections_in_Malaysia "Elections in Malaysia")
  * [Foreign relations](/wiki/Foreign_relations_of_Malaysia "Foreign relations of Malaysia")
  * [Government](/wiki/Government_of_Malaysia "Government of Malaysia")
  * [King](/wiki/King_of_Malaysia "King of Malaysia")
  * [Human rights](/wiki/Human_rights_in_Malaysia "Human rights in Malaysia")
  * [Censorship](/wiki/Censorship_in_Malaysia "Censorship in Malaysia")
  * [Judiciary](/wiki/Judiciary_of_Malaysia "Judiciary of Malaysia")
  * [Law](/wiki/Law_of_Malaysia "Law of Malaysia")
  * [Law enforcement](/wiki/Law_enforcement_in_Malaysia "Law enforcement in Malaysia")
  * [Military](/wiki/Malaysian_Armed_Forces "Malaysian Armed Forces")
  * [Monarchies](/wiki/Monarchies_of_Malaysia "Monarchies of Malaysia")
  * [Parliament](/wiki/Parliament_of_Malaysia "Parliament of Malaysia")
  * [Political parties](/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_Malaysia "List of political parties in Malaysia")
  * [Prime Minister](/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Malaysia "Prime Minister of Malaysia")
  * [State legislative assemblies](/wiki/State_legislative_assemblies_of_Malaysia "State legislative assemblies of Malaysia")

  
---  
  
[Economy](/wiki/Economy_of_Malaysia "Economy of Malaysia")| | 

  * [Agriculture](/wiki/Agriculture_in_Malaysia "Agriculture in Malaysia")
  * [Banks](/wiki/List_of_banks_in_Malaysia "List of banks in Malaysia")
    * [Central bank](/wiki/Central_Bank_of_Malaysia "Central Bank of Malaysia")
  * [Energy](/wiki/Energy_policy_of_Malaysia "Energy policy of Malaysia")
  * [Federal budget](/wiki/Malaysian_federal_budget "Malaysian federal budget")
  * [Ringgit (currency)](/wiki/Malaysian_ringgit "Malaysian ringgit")
  * [States by GDP](/wiki/List_of_Malaysian_states_by_GDP "List of Malaysian states by GDP")
  * [States and municipalities by exports](/wiki/List_of_Malaysian_states_and_municipalities_by_exports "List of Malaysian states and municipalities by exports")
  * [Science and technology](/wiki/Science_and_technology_in_Malaysia "Science and technology in Malaysia")
  * [Stock exchange](/wiki/Bursa_Malaysia "Bursa Malaysia")
  * [Telecommunications](/wiki/Telecommunications_in_Malaysia "Telecommunications in Malaysia")
  * [Tourism](/wiki/Tourism_in_Malaysia "Tourism in Malaysia")
  * [Transport](/wiki/Transport_in_Malaysia "Transport in Malaysia")
  * [Unions](/wiki/Trade_unions_in_Malaysia "Trade unions in Malaysia")
  * [World Bank Relations](/wiki/Malaysia_and_the_World_Bank "Malaysia and the World Bank")

  
---  
  
[Society](/wiki/Category:Society_of_Malaysia "Category:Society of Malaysia")| | 

  * [Abortion](/wiki/Abortion_in_Malaysia "Abortion in Malaysia")
  * [Crime](/wiki/Crime_in_Malaysia "Crime in Malaysia")
  * [Corruption](/wiki/Corruption_in_Malaysia "Corruption in Malaysia")
  * [Demographics](/wiki/Demographics_of_Malaysia "Demographics of Malaysia")
  * [Education](/wiki/Education_in_Malaysia "Education in Malaysia")
  * [Ethnic groups](/wiki/Template:Ethnic_groups_in_Malaysia "Template:Ethnic groups in Malaysia")
  * [Health](/wiki/Health_in_Malaysia "Health in Malaysia")
    * [Healthcare](/wiki/Healthcare_in_Malaysia "Healthcare in Malaysia")
  * [Human trafficking](/wiki/Human_trafficking_in_Malaysia "Human trafficking in Malaysia")
  * [Income inequality](/wiki/Income_inequality_in_Malaysia "Income inequality in Malaysia")
  * [Languages](/wiki/Languages_of_Malaysia "Languages of Malaysia")
  * [LGBT](/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Malaysia "LGBT rights in Malaysia")
  * [Malaysian diaspora](/wiki/Malaysian_diaspora "Malaysian diaspora")
  * [Poverty](/wiki/Poverty_in_Malaysia "Poverty in Malaysia")
  * [Prostitution](/wiki/Prostitution_in_Malaysia "Prostitution in Malaysia")
  * [Religion](/wiki/Religion_in_Malaysia "Religion in Malaysia")
  * [Sex trafficking](/wiki/Sex_trafficking_in_Malaysia "Sex trafficking in Malaysia")
  * [Squatting](/wiki/Squatting_in_Malaysia "Squatting in Malaysia")
  * [Water supply and sanitation](/wiki/Water_supply_and_sanitation_in_Malaysia "Water supply and sanitation in Malaysia")
  * [Women](/wiki/Women_in_Malaysia "Women in Malaysia")

  
---  
[Culture](/wiki/Culture_of_Malaysia "Culture of Malaysia")|

  * [Art](/wiki/Malaysian_art "Malaysian art")
  * [Architecture](/wiki/Category:Architecture_in_Malaysia "Category:Architecture in Malaysia")
  * [Cinema](/wiki/Cinema_of_Malaysia "Cinema of Malaysia")
  * [Cuisine](/wiki/Malaysian_cuisine "Malaysian cuisine")
  * [Folklore](/wiki/Folklore_of_Malaysia "Folklore of Malaysia")
  * [Literature](/wiki/Malaysian_literature "Malaysian literature")
  * [Malay ethnic nationalism](/wiki/Ketuanan_Melayu "Ketuanan Melayu")
  * [Media](/wiki/Media_of_Malaysia "Media of Malaysia")
  * [Music](/wiki/Music_of_Malaysia "Music of Malaysia")
  * [Names](/wiki/Malaysian_names "Malaysian names")
  * [Public holidays](/wiki/Public_holidays_in_Malaysia "Public holidays in Malaysia")
  * [Sport](/wiki/Sport_in_Malaysia "Sport in Malaysia")

  
Symbols|

  * [Animal](/wiki/Malayan_tiger "Malayan tiger")
  * [Anthem](/wiki/Negaraku "Negaraku")
  * [Emblem](/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Malaysia "Coat of arms of Malaysia")
  * [Flag](/wiki/Flag_of_Malaysia "Flag of Malaysia")
  * [Flower](/wiki/Hibiscus_rosa-sinensis "Hibiscus rosa-sinensis")
  * _[Rukun Negara](/wiki/Rukun_Negara "Rukun Negara")_

  
  
  * [Outline](/wiki/Outline_of_Malaysia "Outline of Malaysia")
  * [Index](/wiki/Outline_of_Malaysia "Outline of Malaysia")
  * [Bibliography](/wiki/Bibliography_of_Malaysia "Bibliography of Malaysia")

  * [Category](/wiki/Category:Malaysia "Category:Malaysia")
  * [Portal](/wiki/Portal:Malaysia "Portal:Malaysia")

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from "[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Self-
governance_of_Singapore&oldid=1253108530](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Self-
governance_of_Singapore&oldid=1253108530)"

[Category](/wiki/Help:Category "Help:Category"):

  * [British rule in Singapore](/wiki/Category:British_rule_in_Singapore "Category:British rule in Singapore")

Hidden categories:

  * [Articles with short description](/wiki/Category:Articles_with_short_description "Category:Articles with short description")
  * [Short description matches Wikidata](/wiki/Category:Short_description_matches_Wikidata "Category:Short description matches Wikidata")
  * [EngvarB from April 2020](/wiki/Category:EngvarB_from_April_2020 "Category:EngvarB from April 2020")
  * [Use dmy dates from July 2014](/wiki/Category:Use_dmy_dates_from_July_2014 "Category:Use dmy dates from July 2014")
  * [Articles needing additional references from April 2020](/wiki/Category:Articles_needing_additional_references_from_April_2020 "Category:Articles needing additional references from April 2020")
  * [All articles needing additional references](/wiki/Category:All_articles_needing_additional_references "Category:All articles needing additional references")

  * This page was last edited on 24 October 2024, at 11:38 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License](/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_4.0_International_License "Wikipedia:Text of the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License"); additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the [Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Terms_of_Use "foundation:Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Terms of Use") and [Privacy Policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy_policy "foundation:Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy policy"). Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.](https://wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit organization.

  * [Privacy policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Privacy_policy)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer)
  * [Contact Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Code of Conduct](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Universal_Code_of_Conduct)
  * [Developers](https://developer.wikimedia.org)
  * [Statistics](https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org)
  * [Cookie statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/Policy:Cookie_statement)
  * [Mobile view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Self-governance_of_Singapore&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile)

  * [![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)](https://wikimediafoundation.org/)
  * [![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)](https://www.mediawiki.org/)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

